#separator:tab
#html:false
#guid column:1
#notetype column:2
#deck column:3
HmtT{{9p~$	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What is meant by generative AI?	Generative AI refers to a class of algorithms capable of creating new data similar to existing datasets. It learns underlying data distributions to generate text, images, audio, or other modalities that are not exact copies but share structural similarity.
Ok2lrd9H?l	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How have Large Language Models contributed to generative AI?	Large Language Models (LLMs) like GPT-3, BERT, and Llama are central to generative AI for natural language processing. They use transformer architectures to understand, generate, and reason over human language, enabling conversational AI, summarization, and reasoning tasks.
kNq>;!ds[0	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What are common generative model types?	Common types include Variational Autoencoders (VAEs), Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs), Diffusion Models, and Large Language Models (LLMs). Each has distinct architectures and training mechanisms for generating data.
fP->pW61lC	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What is a Variational Autoencoder (VAE)?	A Variational Autoencoder is a generative model that learns to encode input data into a lower-dimensional latent space and then reconstruct new data samples from that space. It combines reconstruction and regularization losses for stability and interpretability.
"N#YIlS7pT/"	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How do GANs differ from VAEs?	GANs employ two networks—a generator and a discriminator—that compete in an adversarial game, while VAEs use probabilistic inference to learn latent distributions. GANs produce more realistic outputs but are harder to train.
"PB_?~<jQx#"	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What are diffusion models in generative AI?	Diffusion models gradually add noise to data (forward process) and then learn to reverse it (reverse process) to generate new data from noise. They are known for producing high-quality and diverse outputs, especially in image generation.
mgapWGP>w:	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What are LLMs used for in assistive technologies?	LLMs are used for generating natural dialogues, supporting users with disabilities through conversational assistance, aiding caregivers, transcribing speech, and even providing emotional companionship or educational support.
KKz_{dmU%]	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How is generative AI prioritized in medical imaging research?	According to the reviewed literature, GANs and VAEs are prioritized for data augmentation, anomaly detection, and image synthesis in medical imaging, improving diagnostic accuracy and expanding limited datasets.
HHNQE2R=C0	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What are assistive systems?	Assistive systems are technologies that support individuals in performing tasks that may be difficult due to physical, sensory, cognitive, or emotional limitations. They enhance independence, comfort, and overall quality of life.
L+?]K35SKl	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	Which four domains are identified for generative AI in assistive technologies?	The four domains are: (1) Care sectors, (2) Medical sectors, (3) Helping people with disabilities or impairments, and (4) Co-working and comfort (social companionship and creativity).
M0Y*{I)vjy	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How does generative AI assist in the care sector?	In the care sector, generative AI automates documentation, improves transcription accuracy, personalizes patient interactions, and enables adaptive care through LLMs and robotics.
do:Sxag7Oy	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What role do diffusion models play in assistive robotics?	Diffusion models are applied to reinforcement learning frameworks to train assistive robots to adaptively serve human needs through policy learning and imitation strategies.
b7a8JRy|UE	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How can generative AI improve healthcare documentation?	LLMs combined with speech-to-text systems can automate medical transcription and summarization, reducing clinician workload and improving accuracy in records.
"C#3Zb*QE-j"	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What are examples of generative AI in medical diagnostics?	Examples include models like Med-PaLM, which answers medical questions with near-expert accuracy, and GANs that generate medical images for diagnosis, augmentation, and analysis.
HdklW/gE8o	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How can generative AI enhance communication for people with disabilities?	Generative AI can generate real-time communication assistance for people with speech impairments, provide adaptive exercises for cognitive rehabilitation, and assist visually impaired users through multimodal LLMs.
Dl27,kD9fW	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What are Brain–Computer Interfaces (BCIs) and how does generative AI support them?	BCIs allow direct communication between the brain and external devices. Generative AI supports BCIs through data augmentation, improving generalization and reducing inter-subject variability.
u&;e[6akV8	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How does generative AI address loneliness or social isolation?	Generative AI chatbots and avatars serve as social companions for the elderly and isolated individuals, fostering emotional connection, reducing loneliness, and providing support.
O|`ubgM:fn	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What are some examples of co-working applications of generative AI?	Tools like GitHub Copilot and creative models like DALL-E and Stable Diffusion facilitate collaboration, creativity, and productivity by providing suggestions, designs, and creative content generation.
BA(go};M8Y	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What are major limitations of generative AI in assistive technologies?	Limitations include bias in training data, lack of transparency, hallucinations, privacy concerns, regulatory uncertainty, missing evaluation metrics, and limited true human understanding.
t{0oaYQT4P	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	Why is bias a critical problem in generative AI for assistive systems?	Because assistive technologies often serve vulnerable populations, biased data can cause discrimination or harm, undermining fairness and reliability in healthcare or social support systems.
"hhv)(y:#`*"	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What causes bias in generative AI?	Bias stems from skewed training datasets, cultural and linguistic imbalances, and insufficient representation of minority groups. Models can replicate and amplify these biases in outputs.
AZi)TZWV5x	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What does “lack of transparency” mean in AI systems?	It refers to the inability to interpret how complex models make decisions. This opacity erodes trust, especially in sensitive domains like healthcare where explainability is essential.
Dl5E0Ul2bo	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What is the paradox hypothesis of generative AI?	The paradox hypothesis refers to the idea that generative AI models can generate coherent and relevant outputs without truly understanding meaning, reflecting a gap between generation and comprehension.
C__x:|]|{-	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What are hallucinations in LLMs?	Hallucinations occur when LLMs generate plausible but false information. This can be dangerous in healthcare, law, or education, where accuracy is critical.
BMV]4E!Oj&	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How can hallucination risks be mitigated?	By using techniques like Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG), grounding responses in verified knowledge bases, and including human oversight in high-risk applications.
cIT<viE>,h	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What are privacy and ownership issues in generative AI?	Concerns include misuse of personal data, unclear data storage policies, and copyright ambiguity regarding AI-generated content, particularly when based on existing intellectual property.
P8r/pR4K?i	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What role do regulations like the EU AI Act play?	Regulations classify AI systems by risk level and impose compliance frameworks. Assistive technologies using generative AI are often classified as high-risk, demanding strict transparency, data governance, and accountability.
GrLs!}2cgB	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	Why are evaluation metrics needed for assistive AI outputs?	To objectively assess the reliability, safety, and accuracy of AI-generated outputs in sensitive domains like healthcare or education, where errors can directly impact users.
Hxs@=TSO`8	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What are future research directions for generative AI in assistive technologies?	Future work includes creating standardized benchmarks, explainable models, bias mitigation frameworks, clear ownership policies, and ethical regulatory systems.
FnHnQ,9Vh;	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How can Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) improve assistive AI reliability?	RAG combines LLM generation with external factual retrieval to ensure outputs are grounded in real data, reducing hallucinations and improving factual accuracy.
iON2zH_Kp8	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What are conditional diffusion models and why are they important?	Conditional diffusion models guide data generation using specific inputs like class labels or text prompts, producing contextually relevant and realistic results for tasks such as medical imaging or rehabilitation.
k;x@D,(JO;	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	Why is interdisciplinary collaboration important in assistive AI?	Because integrating generative AI safely and effectively in assistive systems requires cooperation between AI developers, caregivers, policymakers, and users to ensure ethical and practical outcomes.
AT$+3>IgyR	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How does generative AI contribute to co-creation and creativity?	Generative AI tools help users produce art, music, writing, and designs by automating repetitive steps and offering creative suggestions, enhancing human-AI collaboration.
iK-*@m27yo	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What technical constraints limit generative AI adoption?	High computational costs, lack of domain-specific data, difficulty scaling across diverse tasks, and the need for strong data privacy protections hinder adoption in assistive settings.
QrJF*H7kIB	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What ethical concerns arise with generative AI in healthcare?	Key ethical issues include informed consent, privacy, algorithmic bias, transparency in decision-making, and accountability for AI-driven outcomes.
E_e;p;)@gB	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What is the significance of explainability in assistive AI systems?	Explainability ensures that both users and practitioners understand how AI reaches conclusions, building trust and enabling verification of medical or social decisions.
lWR0Slh{Ny	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How can generative AI be used in emotional or cognitive therapy?	AI-driven conversational agents can simulate empathy, monitor emotional tone, and provide tailored interventions for users with depression, anxiety, or cognitive impairments.
sW-iU.7a!M	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What is the ultimate goal of integrating generative AI into assistive systems?	To build trustworthy, transparent, and human-centric technologies that enhance accessibility, autonomy, and quality of life for people across various needs and abilities.
eua>W?ZoLS	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What is edge data integrity verification (EDIV)?	Edge data integrity verification (EDIV) is the process of checking the accuracy and consistency of data replicas cached on edge nodes so data owners and users can trust the data they read without having to download it all first.
sc-P{D_aEA	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	Why is EDIV necessary when cloud integrity checks already exist?	Edge environments are more distributed, heterogeneous, and volatile than centralized clouds; edge nodes face more diverse attacks and failures, have fewer resources, and serve latency‑sensitive, geo‑aware workloads. Those differences make cloud schemes insufficient without adaptations and extra safeguards.
uf|5_TGA:$	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What real‑world events show integrity risks at the edge are serious?	Large IoT botnets (e.g., Mirai and variants) compromised hundreds of thousands of devices and fueled DDoS attacks on edge infrastructure; everyday causes like disk failures, software bugs, and human error also corrupt data. These realities make proactive, lightweight integrity checks essential.
fIC!]>y8}F	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	Who are the main participants in EDIV?	Four roles typically appear: Data Owner (uploads and manages data), Data User (reads/consumes data), Edge Node (caches/serves replicas), and optionally a Third‑Party Auditor (independent verifier).
kS(._)/7X[	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What are the three canonical EDIV system models?	Private audit (DO/DU verifies directly with edge nodes), Public audit (DO/DU delegates to a trusted or semi‑trusted TPA), and Cooperative audit (edge nodes collectively verify and reach consensus, optionally with blockchain/consensus protocols).
bf9x<*$]7/	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How does the private audit flow work, in plain steps?	1) Challenger (DO/DU) creates a random challenge; 2) Each edge node computes a response/proof over its stored blocks; 3) The challenger verifies the returned proofs and flags any failing replicas.
j]<F[tnA&I	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How does the public audit flow work, in plain steps?	1) DO/DU issues an inquiry to the TPA; 2) The TPA generates challenges to edge nodes; 3) Edge nodes return proofs; 4) The TPA verifies and returns a signed result to the DO/DU.
fyrG3R)Js[	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How does the cooperative audit flow work, in plain steps?	1) DO/DU issues a challenge to the group; 2) Edge nodes verify among themselves, reach agreement via a consensus protocol, and 3) return an agreed, signed/group‑attested result back to the requester.
Ra$uxjjvKV	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What is the core design goal shared by all EDIV schemes?	Provide high‑probability or deterministic assurance that cached data remains unaltered, while keeping bandwidth, compute, and storage overheads low enough for frequent checks in resource‑constrained edge settings.
"vjml9T#oB1"	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What indicators define an efficient EDIV?	Batch Support (verify many replicas in one go), Blockless Verification (verify using compact proofs, not full data), and Stateless Verification (no long‑term audit state required to run the next check).
Dv0>0wPsag	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What indicators define a secure EDIV?	Recoverability (can repair or restore), Fairness (neither side can lie about results), and Soundness (no corrupted node can pass verification without actually holding intact data).
v5[S~JQcXP	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What useful extra functions make an EDIV practical?	Dynamic Verification (safe updates: insert/modify/delete), Privacy Preservation (no sensitive leakage to auditors), and Unrestricted Verification Frequency (no built‑in caps that limit how often you can audit).
nblzdVhL]6	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How do PDP and POR fit EDIV?	Provable Data Possession (PDP) samples random blocks to probabilistically detect corruption with low overhead but without built‑in recovery. Proof of Retrievability (POR) encodes redundancy so that detection implies the ability to reconstruct data; it costs more but enables recovery.
esP!{~SJr{	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What is a plain‑text formula for PDP detection probability?	If a fraction f of blocks is corrupted and t blocks are sampled uniformly at random without replacement (approximation with replacement is fine when N is large), then the miss probability is (1 − f)^t and the detection probability is 1 − (1 − f)^t.
yedJHbHRN~	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How should I choose t, the number of sampled blocks, for a target detection goal?	Solve 1 − (1 − f)^t ≥ p for t, where p is your desired detection probability and f is a minimum corruption fraction you care about; equivalently t ≥ ln(1 − p) / ln(1 − f). For example, to detect f = 1% with p = 99%, t ≥ ln(0.01)/ln(0.99) ≈ 458 samples per replica.
Or}QC=!M{<	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	Why is Blockless Verification critical at the edge?	Pulling entire objects over constrained backhaul links kills latency and cost; small cryptographic proofs (hashes/tags/aggregates) let you verify integrity frequently without moving the data itself.
HNPYhN8T%0	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What does Stateless Verification buy me?	If neither verifiers nor edge nodes need to store per‑audit state, you avoid synchronization bugs, reduce storage, simplify failover, and make audits easier to scale and parallelize across many nodes.
NdFaE~r-;_	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What is Recoverability in practice?	Beyond finding a corrupt replica, the system can reconstruct or replace it—via erasure codes, cross‑replica healing, or re‑fetching from an authoritative source—so service quality and trust are maintained.
fL>tt]><g*	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What is Fairness in EDIV?	Both sides are protected: verifiers can’t falsely claim failures to extract compensation, and edge nodes can’t collude to hide corruption or fabricate passing proofs; mechanisms include signed, verifiable transcripts, on‑chain records, and slashing/incentives.
uy{hduuw?K	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What is Soundness in EDIV?	A corrupted or missing replica cannot forge a valid proof with non‑negligible probability. Soundness is typically grounded in unforgeability of tags, collision‑resistance of hashes, or hardness of pairing‑based assumptions.
E8L2$d<:Vh	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What are the major attack types an EDIV must resist?	Spoofing (lying about results), Replay (reusing old proofs), Forgery (fabricating tags/proofs), Replace (swapping in other blocks), Data Leakage (auditor learns content), Outsourcing (an edge re‑outsources without disclosure), Byzantine (tampering by insiders), and Collusion (nodes cooperate to cheat).
r!WiB*$LRv	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How do I mitigate replay attacks in simple terms?	Bind each proof to a fresh, unpredictable challenge (nonces/timestamps/random coefficients) and reject proofs that don’t incorporate the current challenge.
QjGK*Z3K$^	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How do I mitigate forgery and replace attacks?	Use per‑block authenticators tied to block index and object identity (e.g., tag_i = Sign(sk, H(object_id || i || block_i))) so swapping or fabricating blocks invalidates verification.
y2R=u;+wrd	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How do I prevent auditor‑side privacy leakage?	Design proofs that don’t reveal raw data (homomorphic tags/aggregates), use blinded/randomized challenges, and, when using TPAs, rely on privacy‑preserving constructions (e.g., pairing‑based or algebraic signature schemes that verify without disclosure).
el2fL4Y_:?	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	When should I prefer private audit?	When the data owner/user can afford verification work, wants to avoid any privacy exposure to third parties, and can tolerate managing keys and verification flows directly.
JU@E.iv@Rl	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	When should I prefer public audit?	When owners/users are offline or resource‑constrained, or when an independent attestation is required by policy, compliance, or contracts—while using privacy‑preserving proofs and controls on auditor power.
:n&f!>Z3&	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	When should I prefer cooperative audit?	When fairness without a centralized TPA is needed, and you can leverage edge‑to‑edge consensus (possibly blockchain) to produce group‑attested results and incentives; useful for multi‑stakeholder edge federations.
y1*ewoWTMm	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What practical batching strategies help at the edge?	Aggregate many block tags into one proof (e.g., linear combinations), batch many replicas per node, and batch many nodes per verification round; verify aggregated proofs once to amortize cost.
GvLYDZlgP)	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How do dynamic updates complicate integrity proofs?	Insertions/deletions/modifications must update tags and auxiliary structures (e.g., Merkle or index trees) without breaking soundness; lazy or incremental re‑tagging and authenticated indices reduce rework while keeping proofs verifiable.
QTZ*~H5-4U	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What’s a plain‑text recipe for authenticated dynamic data?	Maintain an authenticated index (e.g., Merkle tree or index‑linked table) where each leaf binds block content and position; the root hash is signed. Updates recompute only affected paths and resign the new root.
fb=ySsQ}]:	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How do I keep verification frequent without overloading the system?	Optimize computation (batch/aggregation), minimize communication (small proofs, pre‑placed tags), and adopt schedules that prioritize likely‑unreliable replicas—so you spend cycles where risk is highest.
t);y[sb]S)	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What is “unrestricted verification frequency” and why does it matter?	It means the scheme doesn’t embed a cap or diminishing correctness when audits are frequent. High‑threat, fast‑changing edge settings need frequent audits to shrink detection time and blast radius.
ljxkv9!J4f	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What are realistic fairness tools beyond cryptography?	Economic incentives (staking/slashing), on‑chain attestations, auditor committees with unbiased selection, and reputation systems that map honest behavior to greater future demand and rewards.
cz*`a,cKz:	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What timeline trends have emerged in EDIV research?	Early work adapted cloud schemes; then focus shifted to trust and privacy, later to richer functionality (dynamic/recovery), and most recently to complex scenarios (multi‑owner, multi‑server) and cooperative/consensus‑based verification.
fSUUeD=>56	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What’s special about multi‑replica vs. multi‑owner scenarios?	Multi‑replica: one owner spreads identical data across many edge nodes; multi‑owner: many owners and many replicas share nodes. Multi‑owner needs careful batching and fairness so one node handling many owners isn’t overwhelmed or favored.
z:kpJGUX?=	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What are “blockless” proofs made of, intuitively?	Small objects like tag aggregates, Merkle authentication paths, or algebraic signatures that convince a verifier about a function of stored blocks without revealing the blocks themselves.
ubHf|9q{|:	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How can I add Recoverability without huge overheads?	Use erasure codes (e.g., Reed–Solomon) across replicas/shards so losing any subset up to a threshold can be reconstructed; combine with cross‑node healing where healthy nodes reseed corrupted ones.
NYmfV`6_-d	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What’s a simple heal‑on‑fail playbook?	On detection: 1) quarantine the bad replica; 2) pick k healthy replicas/shards; 3) reconstruct missing data; 4) re‑tag and re‑introduce; 5) record the incident and reduce trust score for the failing node.
ww_KP7JOFC	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How do blockchain or ledgers help EDIV?	They provide tamper‑evident logs of challenges and results, decentralized auditor selection, and incentive enforcement. This strengthens fairness and non‑repudiation, especially in cooperative audits.
K.%v$]?;~o	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What are the downsides of blockchain in EDIV?	Consensus adds latency and communication overhead; poorly designed contracts can leak metadata; and adversaries can target the chain itself (e.g., collusion, outsourcing proofs), so careful protocol design is required.
c8TIiorh1b	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What is “outsourcing attack” in cooperative settings?	An edge node secretly re‑outsources its storage or proof generation to a third party in violation of policy/SLA, then relays proofs as if they were local—undermining geo‑assurance and trust.
"K~O0:m?#qm"	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How can I detect re‑outsourcing behavior?	Combine geo‑binding (e.g., location‑tied attestation), latency/route measurements against expected bounds, and audit economics where nodes stake value they lose if measurements imply non‑compliance.
Dk_tYwGp&J	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What is “geo‑assurance” and why is it relevant?	It is assurance that specific data stays within allowed geographic or jurisdictional boundaries (per SLA/regulation). EDIV can incorporate geo‑tags and location‑bound attestations to back this claim.
HSpK:Q^4/I	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How do I think about verification frequency quantitatively?	Model trade‑offs among detection delay, audit cost, and risk. If audits arrive as a Poisson process with rate λ, the expected time to detect a persistent corruption is ~1/λ; increasing λ lowers risk but raises cost. Optimize λ where marginal risk reduction equals marginal cost.
KU7J?~/BtN	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What is a practical heuristic for scheduling audits?	Score each replica by risk = recent failures + node reputation penalties + environmental signals (temperature/power churn) + data criticality, then audit the highest‑risk set under your budget each round.
e3Keu6F:@8	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How do heterogeneous edge resources affect EDIV design?	Nodes differ in CPU/bandwidth/uptime. Flexible schemes let powerful nodes run full interactive checks while constrained nodes run local anomaly filters, with random “spot‑check” interactive audits to catch liars.
OI8(Q-v9a*	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What role can machine learning play safely?	ML can pre‑filter likely‑bad replicas, detect anomalous access patterns, and set audit frequency; but final integrity claims should still rest on cryptographic proofs to avoid false positives/negatives driving wrong decisions.
LlMGFCWO9S	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How can context‑aware security help?	Use location, device health, workload type, and user behavior to adapt challenge sizes, frequency, and quorum thresholds dynamically—tightening security where and when risk is elevated.
ftDDGDgNXK	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What secure hardware is useful at the edge?	TPMs/TEEs/HSMs can attest to software stacks, protect keys, and bind proofs to measured code and location; this raises the cost of forgery and outsourcing attacks.
B4<a>V%Y=X	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	Why consider post‑quantum (PQ) cryptography now?	Many edge lifecycles and archives are long. Migrating tags/signatures to PQ‑safe schemes early (e.g., lattice‑based) reduces long‑term integrity and non‑repudiation risks as quantum capabilities mature.
otA=d=[&6X	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What privacy pitfalls exist in public audits?	Naïve schemes disclose which blocks were sampled, response sizes, or access patterns; over time, this can leak sensitive structure. Use blinding, randomized coefficients, and aggregation to mask patterns.
c-0_6FW+fJ	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How do I guard against collusion among edge nodes?	Require diverse quorums (different operators/locations), cross‑checks, and stake‑based penalties; rotate responsibilities and use randomized committee selection so collusion is costly and unpredictable.
nHyg}T^a@y	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What is a simple, robust tag design?	For object O with ID and block i, set tag_i = Sign(sk, H(O_id || i || block_i)). Aggregate proofs with random coefficients r_i chosen fresh per audit: proof = Σ r_i * (block_i, tag_i) in an algebraic scheme suitable for aggregation.
xz=Sy]i_&$	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What’s the communication budget of a compact audit?	Typical proof sizes are O(1) or O(log N) per replica (constant‑size aggregates or short Merkle paths), plus small challenge vectors; this keeps per‑audit bytes tiny relative to object size.
"dIYM!#k?i;"	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How can I lower backhaul usage further?	Pre‑cache tags/proofs at the edge, batch challenges across tenants, and prefer edge‑to‑edge cooperation so only compact summaries traverse backbone links.
n+=F}fJD;k	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How do I evaluate an EDIV method in practice?	Measure computation time per audit (client/node), bytes sent per replica, detection probability vs. corruption fraction, false‑positive rate, dynamic update cost, and resilience under attack simulations (replay/forgery/collusion).
O`5gMRCS-R	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What’s a minimal incident response plan after a failed audit?	Isolate the node, re‑run audit with expanded sample, attempt repair from healthy peers, escalate to POR‑based recovery if needed, log and notify stakeholders, and reduce node reputation or stake accordingly.
yMc@;rQ[qU	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What are the biggest open research gaps?	General, efficient multi‑owner/multi‑server verification; fair cooperative audits without trusted TPAs; robust re‑outsourcing detection and geo‑assurance; principled audit‑frequency optimization; and integration of heterogeneous resource models.
sEIrSoUO?m	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How do reputation systems improve EDIV?	Map honest behavior to higher reputation and future selection; weight committees by reputation; and combine with slashing so cheating has immediate cost and long‑term demand consequences.
cEsVkGPP&Q	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What micro‑service design tips improve security at the edge?	Isolate components, minimize blast radius, keep update pipelines fast, and give each service its own keys and least‑privilege scope so compromise of one does not compromise proofs or data elsewhere.
muyNx:$xlL	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How do I reason about false alarms?	Define acceptable false‑positive rate α and tune thresholds accordingly; remember that excessive α erodes trust and wastes healing bandwidth, while too‑low α increases time‑to‑detect—balance using historical outcomes.
iBGA$@opdS	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	Where do algebraic signatures help?	Algebraic signatures allow fast, linear‑time proof aggregation and verification for dynamic data; they’re well‑suited for batching many small blocks and supporting efficient updates.
t]B~a&-@xD	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What is a simple scheme to bind proofs to time?	Include a verifiable timestamp or recent signed beacons (e.g., from a time authority) in the challenge; reject any proof lacking the current beacon, preventing replay across audit epochs.
l&R/]XNgOs	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How can I prevent proof reuse across replicas?	Bind tags to object IDs and node IDs; include per‑replica salts so a tag computed for one object/node cannot validate another.
AuUK*b]U9|	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How can EDIV localize which blocks are corrupted?	Use indexable tags or Merkle paths that identify failing block indices; once a batch proof fails, binary‑search with smaller challenges to pinpoint corrupted ranges efficiently.
"fH=d}$~#(9"	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What’s a plain‑text checklist for deploying EDIV at an enterprise edge?	Define data criticality and SLOs; choose a model (private/public/cooperative); select cryptographic core (PDP, POR, algebraic/Merkle); design batching; plan dynamic update process; set audit frequency policy; implement incident response and healing; instrument logs/metrics; and test under adversarial scenarios.
LSqwQX.hv(	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What are good KPIs to track over time?	Audit coverage (% replicas checked per interval), mean time to detect and repair, false‑positive/negative rates, communication per audit, compute per audit, and node reputation trajectories.
w[tmX+<6g4	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How do I integrate EDIV with SLAs?	Express audit frequency, geo‑assurance constraints, repair time targets, and penalties for failure; require signed audit results, independent attestation (TPA or committee), and clear remedies.
"kYR#>3p.By"	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What role can federated learning play without breaking proofs?	Use it only to prioritize which replicas to audit or to flag anomalies; do not replace cryptographic verification—ML ranks risk, crypto establishes truth.
nCzDyLTzbI	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What’s a safe stance on explainability in EDIV?	Prefer auditable, deterministic proofs for integrity claims; where ML is used for triage, log features/scores for review, but keep the final pass/fail rooted in verifiable math.
BnOkn<3&~D	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What are simple, effective ways to randomize challenges?	Use CSPRNG‑derived coefficients, rotate seeds, and prove freshness with signed time beacons so adversaries can’t predict or reuse challenge material.
jKy_$}s/f-	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How do I make audits resilient to packet loss or intermittent connectivity?	Support retries and partial proofs, cache challenges locally, allow delayed responses with grace windows, and ensure challenges include expiry so late replays are rejected.
FkQ>ThiCTD	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What’s a low‑friction way to start with EDIV on existing edge caches?	Add Merkle trees and signed roots per object, run lightweight private audits on a schedule, log failures, and expand to batching and POR as you mature.
F9Q+ppeH?^	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How can EDIV support compliance regimes (e.g., data residency)?	Attach location‑bound attestations to proofs, verify that keys/attestations originate from approved hardware and jurisdictions, and audit location evidence alongside integrity.
jgYdUIZI$|	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What’s the simplest way to quantify audit cost?	Total cost per interval = compute_cost_client + compute_cost_nodes + bytes_transferred * network_price + chain_gas_fees (if any); optimize by increasing batch size until marginal efficiency gains flatten.
A&[|x:U[eD	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How does EDIV impact user‑perceived latency?	Properly designed EDIV runs asynchronously and off‑path, so reads stay fast; only healing or quarantine actions affect availability. Keep proofs compact and verification off the hot path.
ogkJ:UeYMG	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	Can EDIV help detect silent data corruption?	Even without visible read errors, periodic proofs detect bit‑rot or latent corruption so you can heal before users hit bad data.
or{jaHLBy*	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How do incentives change operator behavior?	With deposits/slashing and reputational demand, cheating has immediate and future costs; properly calibrated incentives encourage honest storage and swift self‑healing after faults.
Dfp)(<6kOE	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What design anti‑patterns should I avoid?	Relying solely on logs without proofs, fixed challenge sets, storing audit secrets at the edge, not binding proofs to object/node IDs, ignoring dynamic updates, and capping audit frequency at low values.
pxM_OTO8rK	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What is the big picture takeaway for edge computing architects?	Treat integrity as a continuous, lightweight, and fair process: frequent, blockless, stateless checks; proofs bound to identity, time, and place; incentives and consensus where needed; and recovery as a first‑class feature so edge data remains trustworthy at scale.
m6/fZ)j-$T	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What is a wireless sensor network (WSN)?	A wireless sensor network is a distributed collection of small, low-power sensor nodes that sense physical phenomena and communicate wirelessly—often over multiple hops—to a sink node that aggregates and forwards data to external systems.
Ioo0pUkcSo	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What are the core hardware components of a sensor node?	Typical components include sensors/actuators, a microcontroller/processor, memory (RAM/Flash), a radio transceiver (e.g., IEEE 802.15.4/Zigbee/BLE/Wi‑Fi/LoRaWAN), and a battery/power management subsystem supporting sleep modes and duty cycling.
x$LA?Vszg?	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	Why is energy efficiency the dominant design constraint in WSNs?	Most nodes run on batteries in hard-to-reach locations, so communication, computation, and sensing must be minimized; techniques like duty cycling, data aggregation, and lightweight routing are used to extend network lifetime.
P}}G+E<kv|	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What is the role of the sink node?	The sink acts as a gateway that collects, aggregates, and forwards sensed data to back-end services; it often has more power and storage than regular nodes.
CJGdyz&XzX	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How does multi-hop communication benefit WSNs?	Multi-hop relaying extends coverage, reduces per-hop transmit power, and allows operation in challenging terrains by forwarding data through intermediate nodes to the sink.
NL|.J]YSYf	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What security properties are essential in WSNs?	Confidentiality (prevent eavesdropping), integrity (prevent tampering), authentication (verify senders), availability (resist DoS/jamming), scalability (handle node churn), and energy-awareness (security must fit resource limits).
tPR3CZ[>V1	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	Which application domains commonly deploy WSNs?	Environmental monitoring, industrial automation, healthcare, precision agriculture, smart homes, traffic/transport, wildlife tracking, disaster response, military/defense, structural health monitoring, and smart grids.
7WpoV={U,	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What is LEACH and when is it useful?	LEACH (Low-Energy Adaptive Clustering Hierarchy) is a clustering protocol where rotating cluster heads aggregate local data before forwarding; it reduces long-range transmissions and suits moderately sized, relatively static networks needing energy balance.
qt@Y7M9<P}	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What are LEACH’s main drawbacks?	Uneven cluster-head selection, single-hop to the sink (hurts scalability/latency), limited inter-cluster coordination, and potential suboptimal clusters in large or dynamic deployments.
rAN8;%Vz(b	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How does PEGASIS differ from LEACH?	PEGASIS forms a chain where each node talks to a close neighbor; data is aggregated along the chain to a leader then sent to the sink, cutting transmissions but increasing delay and vulnerability to single-node failures.
xj@N<j50/7	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What distinguishes TEEN from APTEEN?	TEEN is reactive with hard/soft thresholds to trigger reports only on significant changes; APTEEN adds periodic reporting to TEEN, blending reactive and proactive behavior to improve timeliness at the cost of complexity and overhead.
F~.|$nx*u}	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What are AODV’s key traits in WSN routing?	AODV discovers routes on demand using RREQ/RREP, reducing control overhead versus proactive schemes; it adapts to topology changes but adds route discovery latency and maintenance traffic under churn.
mx]V!/,4dV	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How does DSR compare to AODV?	DSR uses source routing (full path in headers) and route caches, eliminating periodic updates; it saves control traffic on stable paths but suffers header overhead and poor scalability on long routes.
FiL$sAEJDh	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	When is flooding appropriate?	Flooding is simple and robust for very small or highly dynamic networks or for rare control messages, but it wastes energy due to redundant rebroadcasts and risks broadcast storms in larger deployments.
NOs.OAFA!F	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What high-level categories of WSN attacks does the survey organize?	Physical attacks, node spoofing/replication, denial of service (DoS), jamming, eavesdropping/unauthorized access, routing-layer attacks (black hole, gray-hole, selective forwarding, sinkhole, wormhole), and Sybil attacks.
y~B?m92CQu	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What constitutes a physical attack on WSNs?	Any adversary action on hardware—node capture, tampering, or destruction—aimed at extracting keys/data, altering firmware/configuration, or permanently disabling nodes.
uz|q7eI80j	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What is a node replication (or spoofing) attack?	An attacker clones a legitimate node’s identity and inserts replicas into the network to inject false data, skew aggregation, or seize routing influence through duplicate identities.
"J_&!0X-.#A"	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What makes DoS attacks particularly damaging in WSNs?	They exhaust scarce bandwidth, CPU, memory, and especially battery, causing congestion, dropped packets, or total service outage; examples include flooding, resource depletion, routing disruption, jamming, and sinkhole formation.
L,rq0GGux`	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How does a jamming attack work?	An adversary transmits interfering RF energy on the same channel(s) to overwhelm legitimate signals, causing high PER (packet error rate), link failures, and network partition.
GF`H;jKt&z	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What is eavesdropping in WSNs?	Passive interception of wireless packets and metadata (timing, sizes, RSSI) to learn sensitive content, endpoints, topology, or node locations without actively modifying traffic.
qbPDg}@2wp	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What is a black hole attack?	A malicious node advertises the best route and then drops all forwarded packets, causing data loss and disrupting services.
BylGU,>xY4	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What is a gray-hole attack?	A variant of black hole where the attacker selectively drops or alters only some packets (e.g., based on source, type, or time) to evade simple detection while degrading service.
jV>>c=J?i%	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What is selective forwarding?	A compromised forwarder silently drops a subset of transit packets while forwarding others, inducing biased data loss and misleading applications.
y*K-b!r(HS	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What is a sinkhole attack?	An attacker attracts traffic by claiming a superior path to the sink, then intercepts/modifies/drops data, undermining integrity and confidentiality.
vFOUaZX}-b	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What is a wormhole attack?	Two colluding adversaries tunnel packets over a fast out-of-band link, fabricating a short path that misleads routing, bypasses normal topology, and facilitates traffic interception or routing instability.
r;HSCUWVY,	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What is a Sybil attack?	A single device forges multiple identities to gain disproportionate influence in routing, aggregation, voting, or reputation systems, undermining trust assumptions.
NXSisOTr87	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	Which cryptographic choices fit WSN constraints?	Lightweight symmetric cryptography for bulk data and ECC-based public-key operations when needed; RSA is generally too computationally and energy expensive on typical motes for frequent operations.
"PDDLF<g#Jt"	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How should key management be approached in WSNs?	Favor lightweight, scalable schemes: pre-distribution/key pools, pairwise keys, probabilistic key sharing, on-demand session keys, and periodic rekeying—balanced against memory and communication overhead.
wC<3Qd$qu)	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What does end-to-end encryption protect against?	It protects confidentiality against eavesdroppers and untrusted intermediate relays; combined with integrity (MACs) and replay protection, it blocks content tampering and traffic cloning.
lVaahE9IJK	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How can rate limiting help against DoS?	By capping packet or control-message rates per neighbor/interface, nodes avoid resource exhaustion from floods and maintain fairness; however, limits must not starve bursty but legitimate events.
Pv]Ks[LzCi	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What is the role of intrusion detection systems (IDS) in WSNs?	IDS monitor traffic and node behavior to flag anomalies (e.g., sudden drop spikes, route flapping, abnormal RF noise), enabling isolation of compromised nodes or triggering mitigation.
DT;j>9<tFA	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	Which techniques mitigate jamming in practice?	Frequency hopping or channel agility, spread spectrum (e.g., DSSS), adaptive power control, spatial/frequency diversity, cognitive radio band switching, and jamming detection with rapid channel re-selection.
v{AV&X{~!p	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How can eavesdropping be further hindered beyond encryption?	Use traffic shaping (dummy packets, randomized schedules), FHSS to blur temporal correlation, secure localization to hide positions, and data aggregation to reduce sensitive payload in the air.
kqnc<l~a:P	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How do we counter routing-layer attacks generally?	Combine secure routing (authenticating control messages), neighbor/position verification, trust/reputation scoring, multipath forwarding, watchdog monitoring, and consistency checks (e.g., hop count/time plausibility).
ce_c-|(0>S	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What mitigations target node replication attacks?	Strong join/authentication procedures, per-node credentials, neighbor endorsement, location/temporal checks, and detecting identical IDs seen in disjoint regions.
t&D*fRE+m<	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How do we detect/mitigate sinkholes?	Cross-validate advertised metrics with multiple neighbors, verify physical proximity to sink (geographic checks), monitor abnormal traffic attraction, use trust systems, and authenticate routing updates.
riQmO4a`%X	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What strategies counter wormholes?	Packet leashes (time/geographic), tight time sync with propagation checks, hop-count plausibility, secure neighbor discovery, multipath routing, and cooperative detection of unnatural low-latency paths.
i(Jc]ce>RJ	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How do we reduce impact of selective forwarding?	Use multipath/redundant transmissions, random next-hop selection, watchdogs acknowledging forward progress, MACs/digital signatures for integrity, and anomaly thresholds for drop ratios.
tT(S9>xMa,	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What are trade-offs of redundancy against selective forwarding?	Reliability ↑ but energy and channel usage ↑; designing an optimization that balances extra copies versus node lifetime is key.
mk;KqF6^U.	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How do trust/reputation systems help—and where do they struggle?	They weight routing/aggregation by observed honesty, improving resilience; they can be vulnerable to collusion, on-off attacks, and incur overhead for monitoring and score exchange.
v.*$*MP3xX	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	Why is secure localization relevant to security?	Many mitigations (replication, Sybil, sinkhole, wormhole defenses) rely on credible position or distance claims; secure localization resists spoofing and supports plausibility checks.
kX-6(Ru4m~	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What distinguishes confidentiality, integrity, and availability threats in WSNs?	Confidentiality threats read data (eavesdropping); integrity threats alter data/control (spoofing, selective forwarding); availability threats block service (DoS/jamming)—mitigations must jointly address all three.
l|Q`e:e![w	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How can dummy traffic improve privacy?	Injecting cover traffic and randomizing schedules obscures true event times/locations and thwarts traffic analysis, at the cost of extra energy and airtime.
gKi$&v4!C]	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What QoS measures harden availability under attack?	Prioritize critical flows, reserve bandwidth, apply admission control, and degrade gracefully by shedding noncritical work when resources are scarce.
g)y^1~E;;-	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What are practical indicators of jamming on a node?	Sustained high RSSI/noise floor without decodable packets, elevated CCA busy time, sharp PER spikes, and simultaneous link failure across neighbors on the same channel.
"efR$}#TL#."	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	Which evaluation metrics matter for WSN security techniques?	Detection rate/false positives, delivery ratio, end-to-end latency, energy per delivered bit, control overhead, memory footprint, network lifetime, and scalability under node churn.
pn<_-&,9t_	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	Why is RSA often ill-suited to motes?	Equivalent security requires large key sizes and expensive modular exponentiation, leading to unacceptable time/energy; ECC achieves similar security with smaller keys and fewer cycles.
L,3S5[8S^?	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How do packet leashes limit wormholes in plain terms?	A temporal leash constrains max packet travel time (Δt ≤ d_max/c); a geographic leash includes sender location/time so receivers can bound feasible distance and reject tunneled packets.
Q8*2a=w-jg	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How does cognitive radio help under adversarial RF conditions?	By sensing spectrum occupancy and hopping to underutilized bands, the network can evade narrowband jammers and reduce contention, improving throughput and reliability.
Ghzm,~A/@O	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What are common pitfalls when inserting blockchain into WSNs?	Consensus and storage are heavy for motes, bandwidth demands rise, latency increases, and privacy can suffer; only lightweight, tailored consensus and off-chain designs are feasible in practice.
NsKq+Tofjb	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	When does data aggregation aid both energy and security?	Aggregating near sources cuts transmissions (saving energy) and limits exposure of raw readings; integrity-protected aggregates reduce the utility of intercepted packets to attackers.
H<?bxgs{?o	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What future key-management directions does the survey highlight?	Physical-layer key generation (PLKG), PUF-backed secrets, lightweight on-demand keying, and post-quantum readiness—each balanced against randomness, stability, and resource constraints.
r1{e_S1GiL	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What is PLKG and what are its limits?	Physical-Layer Key Generation derives symmetric keys from channel reciprocity, uniqueness, and randomness without PKI; in static/fading-stable settings or FDD systems, randomness/reciprocity can be insufficient or attackable, limiting key rates and robustness.
lL{<0{(W`*	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What do PUFs contribute—and what challenges remain?	PUFs yield device-unique secrets resistant to invasive extraction; they can drift with temperature/aging, require error correction, must resist modeling attacks, and add design complexity to constrained nodes.
r{^~2dR$2{	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	Why prepare WSNs for post-quantum cryptography (PQC)?	Future quantum adversaries endanger classical public-key schemes; adopting compact PQC (where feasible) future-proofs authentication/key exchange, though implementations must address code size, speed, and energy.
pcxEcP+QCu	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How can AI assist WSN security?	ML can detect anomalies, classify attacks, and predict failures from multi-signal data; risks include adversarial examples, model drift, false positives, opacity, and compute overhead on tiny devices.
x:@%+z/~so	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What makes DoS/jamming hard to fully prevent?	Attack traffic can resemble legitimate bursts, and RF interference can be indistinguishable from environmental noise; defenses focus on early detection, agility, and graceful degradation rather than perfect prevention.
d.N5`!hG0K	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How does neighbor verification raise the bar for attackers?	Requiring mutual challenge-response, consistent RSS/time-of-flight, and neighborhood consensus complicates identity spoofing, Sybil creation, and false adjacency claims.
x=^a-Vhz_9	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	When should multipath routing be preferred?	When the environment or adversary induces nonuniform drops or path failures; multipath increases delivery probability at the cost of energy—tuned redundancy is essential in energy-limited networks.
"<N(%8#uSo"	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How can time synchronization support security?	Tight sync enables replay protection windows, temporal leashes, and detection of suspiciously fast/slow paths; clock drift must be managed to avoid false alarms.
MSZ_JjnEgj	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What’s a pragmatic approach to IDS on motes?	Use lightweight, rule- and threshold-based detectors at nodes and cluster-heads; offload heavier analytics to the sink/edge server; combine local alarms with neighborhood corroboration to cut false positives.
A;WWNs{+Tb	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What are simple, deployable steps to harden a WSN from day one?	Use link and end-to-end encryption with fresh nonces, authenticate control traffic, rate-limit neighbors, randomize duty cycles/channels, enable basic watchdogs, restrict join procedures, and maintain a revocation list.
p?XQ$x5}ov	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How do cluster-based topologies affect security?	Cluster heads become high-value targets; they should rotate frequently, use tamper-resistant storage, authenticate members, and avoid single-hop long-range links when possible.
xro5lAEMV+	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What is the energy-security trade-off intuition?	Every extra byte encrypted, hash computed, or packet retransmitted costs energy; select the minimum-strength mechanisms that meet the threat model, and shift work to the sink when feasible.
H_la~Dbsvd	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How should selective forwarding detection thresholds be set?	Baseline per-link loss rates during benign periods and flag deviations beyond statistical bounds (e.g., z-scores over a sliding window) to account for natural wireless variability.
gv~{2I+!X3	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What design choice reduces the blast radius of a captured node?	Per-link or pairwise keys (not a single network-wide key), least-privilege roles, and rapid rekey on suspicious behavior limit what a captured node can read/inject.
"s%N#uRT[J."	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What distinguishes sinkhole from black hole attacks operationally?	Both attract traffic; a sinkhole primarily intercepts/inspects/modifies routed data before onward forwarding or selective dropping, whereas a black hole typically drops almost everything it draws in.
s*Dm;S3n;y	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	Why is selective forwarding harder to detect than black holes?	Because some packets still get through, simple delivery checks pass; detection relies on patterns (who loses what and when) rather than absolute failure.
"ttAT#tCR&q"	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How can topology-aware plausibility checks catch wormholes?	Compare observed hop counts and latencies against geographic distances; impossible short-latency, low-hop paths over long distances indicate tunneling.
zM1@M3wt`p	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What’s a low-cost way to randomize traffic against traffic analysis?	Vary reporting intervals within a bounded jitter window, insert occasional dummies, and shuffle next-hop choices among good neighbors to blur deterministic patterns.
KLa.KxYFt5	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How does data prioritization help under attack?	Mark critical telemetry/control with higher priority and assured retries, while shedding or aggregating noncritical traffic to preserve mission-essential flows when resources are constrained.
y<$IV!/JXJ	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What is the main risk of reputation systems in sparse networks?	Limited observations and slow information diffusion lead to noisy or manipulable scores; bootstrap carefully and avoid overreacting to few samples.
e1cQ@L!Mo1	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	When does APTEEN outperform TEEN?	In scenarios needing both timely periodic summaries and immediate alerts on threshold crossings—e.g., industrial monitoring—accepting extra control overhead for better visibility.
"K#tF:^_W=>"	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How should WSNs approach blockchain, if at all?	Offload consensus to more capable edge gateways, store only hashes on-chain, use lightweight BFT-style or DAG-based consensus, and keep raw sensor data off-chain to save energy and preserve privacy.
"GySd#!{{8i"	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What operational playbook helps during a jamming incident?	Detect via noise/PER/CCA metrics, switch channels/bands, reduce data rates or coding thresholds, narrow beam if possible, fall back to multipath, and log RF environment for forensic analysis.
q-.,iWF2y%	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How do we decide between AODV and DSR in practice?	Use AODV when paths are longer and mobility is moderate (smaller headers, on-demand discovery); use DSR when paths are short and caching can be exploited with minimal header growth.
b509m+Dk&6	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What is a minimal secure join procedure for new nodes?	Out-of-band provisioned credentials, neighbor challenge-response with rate limits, time-bounded admission, and the sink’s approval before full routing participation.
K(luGdrxI/	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How can aggregation be made integrity-aware?	Attach homomorphic MACs/signatures or per-source tags that allow the sink to verify aggregates without seeing all raw data, balancing integrity with privacy and efficiency.
C_HKI;GjW_	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What realistic expectations should teams set for WSN security?	Aim for layered defenses that meaningfully raise attacker cost and detect/contain breaches; perfect prevention is unrealistic—focus on resiliency, quick detection, and recovery while preserving node lifetime.
A~vlM+t-l]	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	Which frameworks does the study say fall short at big-data scale and why?	ISO/IEC 27005 and the NIST Cybersecurity Framework guide risk and lifecycle processes well, but rely on periodic, manual, static assessments that struggle with high-volume, high-velocity data and dynamic optimization; the proposed BDT system augments their Detect/Respond capabilities with real-time analytics and automation.
o%]i%u!W^r	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What are the four primary security data sources used?	System logs, network traffic records, user behavior data, and external threat intelligence; fusing these increases detection coverage and timeliness.
}+U7l{iPJ	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What does the data collection layer do?	It deploys distributed log collectors/pipelines to continuously ingest raw events from operating systems, applications, databases, network devices, servers, and security tools into the big data platform in near real time.
g]{M9FkqG1	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	Which storage technologies are used and why?	HDFS provides scalable, replicated storage for massive datasets with high availability; NoSQL databases handle semi-structured/unstructured security data with flexible schemas and efficient column-family access.
eV|k2lg9HC	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How are batch and real-time processing balanced?	MapReduce handles heavy batch jobs (cleaning, transformation, offline analysis), while Apache Spark powers low-latency stream processing for immediate anomaly detection and situation awareness.
LOO;c2*v/[	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	Which analysis tools support security analytics at scale?	Hive enables SQL-like analytics over large tables, Pig simplifies complex dataflows, and ML stacks (Spark MLlib/Mahout) train and serve models for detection and prediction.
CuvTkJZ*kd	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What core preprocessing steps improve model quality?	Noise filtering and de-duplication, denoising, format conversion, and standardization to harmonize multi-source data and reduce spurious variance before feature extraction.
"jP?>7|t#Vy"	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	Which high-value features are extracted for detection?	Examples include abnormal login time/location patterns, sudden access frequency spikes, unusual resource access sequences, atypical permission changes, and traffic flow deviations indicative of scans, DDoS, or exfiltration.
Bh2tWq,Z!q	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	Which learning algorithms are central to detection?	Support Vector Machines (primary classifier) for robust high-dimensional classification and Random Forests for ensemble robustness and feature selection; both are trained on historical multi-source data to classify normal vs. threat behaviors.
E?9A`@u/wb	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What role does logistic regression play in the study?	It is used to build an explicit threat probability predictor for risk scoring: y = f(x; θ), where x is a feature vector from logs/traffic/behavior, θ are learned parameters, and f is the logistic mapping producing a probability of a security event.
fFQHV?-1/.	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How are models evaluated?	With accuracy (overall correctness), recall (ability to find true threats), F1 (harmonic mean of precision and recall), AUC (threshold-agnostic discrimination), and Average Precision (precision-recall area, robust under class imbalance).
)gurFc1CW	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What headline performance does the proposed big-data model achieve?	It reaches 90.3% accuracy and an AUC of 0.92 on cross-industry datasets, indicating strong discrimination and practical detection quality at enterprise scale.
ojzM(CR+j]	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How do baseline models compare?	Rule-based detection lags on accuracy/recall for novel threats; SVM alone is sensitive to noise and high dimensionality; CNN performs well (accuracy 87.6%, AUC 0.89, F1 84.2%) on spatial pattern extraction but is weaker for time series; collaborative defense is broad but complex (accuracy 85.3%, recall 89.2%, F1 86.5%); hybrid models improve balance but have real-time/scalability gaps.
kSof%,K)nc	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What parameter combination gave the best F1 in testing?	Learning rate 0.01, tree depth 10, regularization 0.1, feature selection Top 20 (Parameter Group 1) achieved F1 = 0.87, balancing precision and recall effectively.
Or.r&4QzJm	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What trade-off appeared in the highest-accuracy group?	A configuration with 92% accuracy showed lower recall at 86%, illustrating that pushing accuracy can suppress sensitivity to true positives—teams should optimize to mission needs, not a single metric.
wAW_VVA1o5	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	Which time window worked best for temporal aggregation?	A 14-day window produced accuracy around 90% and recall around 85%, suggesting a practical balance between signal accumulation and timeliness for many enterprise scenarios.
"ln!#bFX0vI"	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	Which data sources most improved accuracy and by how much?	Network traffic records contributed about +8% accuracy, system logs about +5%, and external threat intelligence about +4%—underscoring the value of packet-flow context, internal telemetry, and cross-domain intel fusion.
"BF-}m#9w~p"	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What concrete signs in system logs often precede incidents?	Clusters of failed logins, unusual authentication from new geolocations, sudden privilege escalations, unexpected service restarts, and bursts of access-denied events are strong precursors to compromises or misuse.
o)5B(!+9.>	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What does the decision layer do once anomalies are detected?	It runs a closed-loop response: generate an intelligent alert, isolate affected assets, perform traceback, adjust controls (e.g., firewall rules and ACLs), trigger recovery, and feed outcomes back to tuning and policy for continual improvement.
f6H/9XLE8p	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How does the system achieve “closed-loop” automation?	By wiring detection thresholds to playbooks that automatically enact containment and remediation actions, while allowing manual override; telemetry and outcomes flow back to models and rules to reduce future dwell time.
Q:qlnLVQQb	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How are security policies adapted dynamically?	Outputs from the stream analytics and threat models update control-plane configurations—such as rate limits, segmentation, or access rules—based on current threat posture and historical efficacy.
h-gF|qurxV	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What visualization elements best support analysts?	Dashboards, heatmaps, and live network topologies surface hotspots, trending anomalies, and blast radii, while interactive filtering and drill-down support root-cause analysis and hypothesis testing.
q6+[$gD=2u	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	Which industries were included and why does that matter?	Manufacturing, financial services, information technology, energy, and medical-tech were selected to validate generality across differing risk profiles, data shapes, and latency constraints common to critical sectors.
"m=aJZ#Mf`-"	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What were the dataset’s size and composition?	Roughly 100 GB comprising 500,000+ transaction records, millions of network logs, thousands of unstructured texts/emails, with each enterprise contributing 5,000–10,000 labeled security events over 12–18 months and ~50–100 engineered features per sample.
f<uoZ.HYL6	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How was privacy handled in data collection?	Enterprises signed confidentiality agreements and applied de-identification to raw data prior to sharing, enabling model development while reducing exposure of individuals and sensitive business content.
Hz;NIjb>}{	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What computing environment was used?	Cloud-deployed clusters on CentOS 7.9 with Intel Xeon CPUs and NVIDIA Tesla GPUs, PB-level distributed storage, Hadoop 3.2.1, Spark 3.1.2, and MySQL 8.0 plus MongoDB 4.4 for relational and non-relational stores.
cB{*.$<0d=	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What hyperparameters were explored?	Learning rate {0.001, 0.005, 0.01, 0.05}, tree max depth {5, 10, 15, 20}, regularization {0.001, 0.01, 0.1, 1.0}, and feature selection scopes {Top 10, Top 20, Top 30} to stress-test model robustness and find balanced operating points.
NS`$vbn`aD	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How do MapReduce and Spark complement each other?	MapReduce scales heavy, non-urgent batch ETL and offline model training, while Spark executes micro-batch/stream analytics for near-real-time inference and alerting with lower end-to-end latency.
"H#8SoV@`F]"	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What unique value does user behavior analytics add?	It exposes insider risk and credential misuse by correlating logins, permission changes, file access, and session patterns that might look normal in network flow alone.
zEDzULLIs[	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	Why does collaborative defense show high recall but lower precision?	Fusing multiple defense layers and intel sources broadens coverage, but overlapping or loosely tuned signals can inflate false positives, hurting precision and analyst workload.
v53(3S:d~T	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How is feature importance leveraged operationally?	Random Forest feature importances guide which telemetry to prioritize for retention, dashboarding, and sensor investment, and inform access-control hardening where features repeatedly correlate with incidents.
eW(^:j1NS^	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	Where does CNN help despite limitations noted?	CNNs can learn structural patterns in logs and traffic representations (e.g., gram matrices or image-like encodings), improving detection of certain malware or botnet behaviors even if temporal modeling is weaker.
dq:*op5LG<	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What makes the proposed model more adaptable than rules?	It learns from data, retrains incrementally, and generalizes to novel attack patterns, whereas signature/rule systems detect primarily known, static patterns and degrade as threat actors evolve.
jKqcz@w]2z	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What automated responses are typical in the playbooks?	Quarantine a host or user, rotate credentials, block an IP/domain, throttle or drop traffic classes, snapshot forensic state, and open an incident ticket with enriched context for analyst review.
G%yiI=&o37	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What are the biggest practical blockers to adoption?	Data quality and labeling noise, privacy/regulatory constraints in multi-national data flows, and integration friction due to data silos and heterogeneous tools are the primary barriers identified.
o|EK)Nf_xG	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How does the architecture address data silos?	By using distributed collectors, standardized schemas, and a unified storage/processing fabric (HDFS + Hive/Pig + Spark) to normalize and make cross-department data queryable and learnable.
P5%{~/,``k	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	Which metrics should security teams optimize jointly?	Accuracy, recall, and F1 to balance missed attacks vs. false positives; AUC for threshold-agnostic ranking quality; AP for class-imbalance robustness common in low-prevalence incident data.
PlZ`w{=M?%	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What governance must accompany big data security analytics?	Clear data minimization and retention policies, role-based access to raw vs. derived data, audit trails, DPIA-style assessments for privacy, and model-risk management for drift, bias, and explainability.
c)R6$`}z[L	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How do expert interviews contribute to system design?	They surface operational pain points (real-time constraints, integration gaps, false-positive fatigue), supply domain heuristics for features and thresholds, and help prioritize playbooks and dashboards that align with real workflows.
Q{YeAtv]u+	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What is the paper’s stance on model generalizability?	Results across multiple industries suggest strong baseline generality, but the study recommends industry- and size-aware tuning of features, thresholds, time windows, and response playbooks for best effect.
jr9<{=:5qY	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	Why is stream processing critical in modern SOCs?	Attack dwell times and lateral movement can be short; stream analytics compress detection-to-response intervals from hours to seconds, limiting damage and enabling proactive containment.
BuY/GF^d8w	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How is “risk prediction” different from binary detection here?	Beyond labeling events as benign/malicious, the logistic regressor outputs a probability score y = f(x; θ) that supports prioritization, SLA routing, and graded responses proportional to predicted risk.
j1+Qy7*_k5	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What evidence supports the advantage of BDT over legacy stacks?	Distributed storage/compute (Hadoop/Spark) handle scale and velocity; ML/DL extract hidden structure from multi-source data; measured gains include accuracy 90.3% and AUC 0.92 vs. lower baselines.
xNO53D0}n2	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What are recommended next steps for model evolution?	Expand datasets for representativeness, explore adaptive models like graph neural networks and attention mechanisms, and study performance variance by industry and company size for tailored deployments.
igo;ctbUU_	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What is the main privacy tension in big data security noted?	Enterprises must reconcile stringent privacy laws and cross-border rules with the need to centralize and analyze rich telemetry; compliant pipelines (de-identification, access partitioning) are essential to reduce risk while enabling detection.
EM}&}!.[ix	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	Which parameter choice most often improves recall without exploding false positives?	Moderate regularization (e.g., 0.1), mid-depth trees (around 10), and Top-20 feature sets tended to yield balanced recall with manageable precision trade-offs in the reported experiments.
d:We_5sT+v	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How should teams pick a time window initially?	Start near 14 days as a pragmatic baseline, then A/B test shorter windows for fast-moving environments and longer windows where slow-burn fraud or insider risks dominate.
c`mAs7.~TX	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What is a simple mental model of the architecture?	Collect (logs/flows/behavior/intel) → Store (HDFS/NoSQL) → Process (MapReduce batch + Spark streaming) → Analyze (Hive/Pig + ML) → Decide (alerts + automated playbooks) → Visualize/Act (dashboards, topology) → Learn (feedback loops).
tQ%V;o?(b^	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How do external threat feeds add value beyond internal data?	They inject knowledge of emerging TTPs and vulnerabilities to detect campaigns earlier and correlate internal anomalies with global patterns, yielding about a +4% accuracy boost in the study.
p/7gv`9Ar4	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	Why is accuracy alone insufficient for SOC success?	High accuracy can hide low recall (missed attacks) or poor precision (alert fatigue); operational success needs balanced metrics matched to threat models and staffing capacity.
"w#2L*=k|+"	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What are top implementation pitfalls to avoid?	Under-investing in data cleaning, ignoring schema harmonization, overfitting to a single enterprise, deploying models without playbooks, and skipping post-incident feedback all erode results.
i+VfC;Ea1H	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How can false positives be reduced practically?	Layer behavioral thresholds with reputation/intel context, calibrate per-asset baselines, and implement staged responses (observe → limit → block) tied to rising risk scores.
I7F<Hb&{,5	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What types of attacks benefit most from traffic analytics?	DDoS, scanning/probing, brute-force authentication, and data exfiltration signatures stand out in flow-level features such as packet rates, burstiness, destination diversity, and transfer volumes.
LJ$A0q!;*?	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	Where do system logs shine comparatively?	They reveal authentication misuse, privilege escalation, config tampering, and process anomalies that may not manifest distinctly at the packet-flow level.
AZ,mZE*})G	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What does “real-time” mean in this context?	Ingest-to-alert latencies on the order of seconds to a few minutes via Spark streaming and in-memory computation, sufficient to curtail many live attacks.
st@b!.4jfZ	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How are models operationalized day to day?	Batch jobs retrain on rolling windows; streaming jobs score new events, trigger alerts/playbooks, and write labeled outcomes back for periodic re-training and drift checks.
sijQ[`kE6g	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	What are the hardware and cost implications?	PB-scale storage and GPU-accelerated clusters support heavy analytics; cost efficiency comes from using commodity nodes with horizontal scale, prioritizing hot data in fast storage, and offloading archives to colder tiers.
nF$^!42nt@	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 12 - Future Trends and Concepts in Computing	How does the system support audit and learning?	Every alert and automated action is logged with context and outcomes, enabling root-cause reviews, model recalibration, and compliance evidence.
