#separator:tab
#html:false
#guid column:1
#notetype column:2
#deck column:3
M%!D@eWnW_	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What is the core definition of computing?	Computing is the process of designing, developing, and applying software and hardware systems to solve real-world problems. It includes programming, data processing, cybersecurity, AI, and IT management.
NYU&S9;h40	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What is a defining characteristic of computing in terms of information processing?	A defining characteristic of computing in terms of information processing is the ability of computer systems to handle and process vast amounts of information quickly and efficiently.
QW2+g`><{/	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	List the major Bodies of Knowledge (BOKs) in computing introduced in this unit.	The major Bodies of Knowledge (BOKs) in computing introduced in this unit are Software Engineering, Data Science, Cybersecurity, Information Management, Enterprise IT, and Artificial Intelligence.
fwRhOJ<D4e	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What are the key disciplines of computing?	The key disciplines of computing are Software Engineering, Artificial Intelligence, Cybersecurity, Data Science and Storage, and Information Technology Management.
hL^E}{U5G%	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	Explain the role of software engineering in computing.	Software engineering in computing is the discipline that focuses on designing, developing, and maintaining software applications, ranging from mobile apps to enterprise systems, and often employs structured methodologies such as Agile and DevOps.
IetHQ:zAv3	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	How does artificial intelligence contribute to computing?	Artificial intelligence contributes to computing by enabling computers to learn from data and make intelligent, adaptive decisions, which power applications such as self-driving cars, fraud detection systems, and virtual assistants.
hPSCb7)ZWY	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What is the primary goal of cybersecurity?	The primary goal of cybersecurity is to protect computer systems, networks, and data from cyber threats by using tools and methods such as encryption, firewalls, and security protocols.
n7Nj}lWP:P	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What does data science and storage focus on?	Data science and storage focuses on processing and analysing large datasets to extract meaningful insights, which are essential for driving decisions in industries such as healthcare and finance.
Om:}_H{X_;	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What is the function of Information Technology management in computing?	The function of Information Technology management in computing is to ensure that IT infrastructure and services align with business goals, optimise resources such as cloud computing, and oversee digital transformation initiatives.
GrXc^qlH|1	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	How does computing support business innovation and digital transformation?	Computing supports business innovation and digital transformation by automating tasks, enabling data-driven decision-making, and enhancing operational efficiency across a wide range of industries.
Px1LIm{-NT	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	Identify three ethical or social challenges related to computing.	Three ethical or social challenges related to computing are cybersecurity risks that threaten data security, ethical concerns surrounding artificial intelligence such as bias and transparency, and sustainability concerns regarding energy use and environmental impact.
d[*dqMxu3b	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What critical roles does computing play in modern enterprises?	Computing plays critical roles in modern enterprises by improving efficiency, enhancing security, driving innovation, streamlining operations, enabling data-driven decision-making, and supporting overall digital transformation.
og`K1jT}l}	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	How does cloud computing benefit enterprises?	Cloud computing benefits enterprises by reducing operational costs and providing scalable, flexible IT infrastructure that can quickly adapt to changing business needs.
twF]jUGt)b	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What is digital transformation?	Digital transformation is the integration of digital technologies into all areas of a business, fundamentally changing operations and customer engagement to enhance performance and experience.
uz-mpd_5Jb	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	Name four computing technologies that impact digital transformation.	Four computing technologies that impact digital transformation are Automation and Artificial Intelligence, Big Data and Analytics, Cloud Computing, and Cybersecurity.
GOp}1[~5,&	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What advantages do companies gain by embracing digital transformation?	Companies that embrace digital transformation gain advantages such as improved efficiency, reduced operational costs, competitive advantage in their industries, better decision-making through data analysis, and enhanced security.
RhFyV_=MMB	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What challenges affect EDI in computing?	Challenges that affect Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (EDI) in computing include algorithmic bias in artificial intelligence, which can reinforce inequalities, and the digital divide, which limits access to technology for underprivileged communities.
kmc:U|&!i,	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	List some major ethical and social challenges in computing.	Major ethical and social challenges in computing include cybersecurity threats such as hacking and ransomware, artificial intelligence bias and ethical concerns, sustainability and energy consumption issues, and the digital divide that limits equal access to technology.
KD[oTq~}mc	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What is quantum computing and why is it important?	Quantum computing is a new paradigm that uses quantum mechanics to perform calculations that are impossible or impractical for classical computers, and it is important because it has the potential to revolutionise problem-solving in areas such as cryptography, drug discovery, and optimisation.
M+N(G(HSp?	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	How is blockchain technology used beyond cryptocurrency?	Blockchain technology is used beyond cryptocurrency for secure, transparent, and tamper-proof record-keeping in industries such as supply chain management, healthcare, digital identity management, and financial auditing.
d{xTI^s[K?	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What is edge computing and what benefit does it provide?	Edge computing is the practice of processing data close to its source, such as on Internet of Things (IoT) devices, and it provides the benefit of faster processing speeds, reduced latency, and the ability to support real-time decision-making.
y0bIbj?$?{	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	How has artificial intelligence advanced computing?	Artificial intelligence has advanced computing by enabling improvements in automation, enhancing decision-making, and strengthening predictive analytics across sectors such as finance, healthcare, logistics, and customer service.
z+D9d+?9C`	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What are some environmental concerns related to computing?	Environmental concerns related to computing include the high energy consumption of large data centres, the production of electronic waste, and the significant carbon footprint created by global-scale computing operations.
L&)WKSjlDb	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	How are companies addressing the sustainability challenges of data centres?	Companies are addressing the sustainability challenges of data centres by investing in energy-efficient infrastructure, building green data centres powered by renewable energy, and adopting AI-driven cooling and resource management systems.
daP71DOGIM	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What role does AI play in sustainability efforts?	Artificial intelligence plays a role in sustainability efforts by optimising energy use in industries, reducing waste, improving agricultural productivity, managing smart grids, and tracking carbon credits to support environmental accountability.
"M#`~4f~Gt9"	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	How has computing transformed global communication?	Computing has transformed global communication by enabling instant messaging, emails, cloud-based collaboration tools, social media platforms, digital marketing strategies, and the widespread adoption of remote work.
p3`{2=X2ch	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What are key ethical concerns regarding AI?	Key ethical concerns regarding artificial intelligence include algorithmic bias that leads to unfair outcomes, violations of data privacy, the potential for automated surveillance, and the challenge of assigning accountability for AI-driven failures.
"f}rQrV#Um{"	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What is GDPR and why is it significant?	The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) is a European Union law that enforces strict rules on data privacy and responsible handling of user data, and it is significant because it establishes strong protections for individuals while holding organisations accountable for how they collect and process personal information.
u}J[lhG5a;	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	Why is ethical computing important for technology professionals?	Ethical computing is important for technology professionals because it ensures that technology benefits society, minimises harm, promotes fairness and accountability, upholds transparency, and protects user privacy and security.
N)TB@Gx{mJ	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	"What is the ""digital divide"" in computing?"	The digital divide in computing refers to the gap between individuals and communities who have access to modern computing technologies and those who do not, with factors such as income, geographic location, and infrastructure contributing to unequal access.
x{E+i>Eq(z	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What are three key strategies to bridge the digital divide?	Three key strategies to bridge the digital divide are investing in technological infrastructure, providing affordable internet access to underserved populations, and implementing digital literacy programmes to equip people with essential technology skills.
ieqhb5(IBk	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	Why is bridging the digital divide important beyond economic development?	Bridging the digital divide is important beyond economic development because it is also a matter of social equity, ensuring that all individuals and communities can benefit from technology and digital opportunities in education, healthcare, and civic participation.
l~(aT40Er^	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	Give three examples of how automation impacts industries.	Three examples of how automation impacts industries are artificial intelligence optimising production lines in manufacturing, robotic process automation handling routine administrative business tasks, and AI-driven diagnostics improving accuracy in healthcare.
I@_*DaapW=	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What are common career paths in different computing fields?	Common career paths in different computing fields include software engineers who develop applications, data scientists who analyse data trends, cybersecurity experts who protect networks, artificial intelligence engineers who build machine learning models, and enterprise IT managers who oversee IT strategy and infrastructure.
E?_~$H7JfE	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What workforce challenge can automation create?	A key workforce challenge created by automation is job displacement, which makes reskilling and upskilling necessary to keep workers employable in changing industries.
xa2?_bw(AO	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	List four emerging trends in computing.	Four emerging trends in computing are quantum computing, blockchain technology, edge computing, and artificial intelligence with machine learning.
"i#sTTK.@U,"	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What is the primary cybersecurity challenge as computing becomes more integrated into daily life?	The primary cybersecurity challenge as computing becomes more integrated into daily life is the expansion of the attack surface, which increases the vulnerability of individuals, organisations, and societies to cyberattacks.
r$49SV2Kb_	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	Name three common types of cyberattacks.	Three common types of cyberattacks are ransomware attacks that encrypt data for ransom, phishing attacks that deceive individuals into revealing sensitive information, and denial-of-service (DoS) attacks that overwhelm systems to make them unavailable to users.
kzhxFT@%~U	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	How can organisations protect against evolving cyber threats?	Organisations can protect against evolving cyber threats by implementing firewalls, deploying intrusion detection systems, using encryption, enforcing strict access controls, providing regular security training, and requiring multi-factor authentication for critical systems.
I+zjeNI|+p	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What is the GDPR and its purpose?	The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) is a European Union law that enforces strict data handling rules to protect personal privacy, give individuals greater control over their personal data, and hold organisations accountable for secure and transparent data practices.
"O{#g:atj)t"	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	"What are ""insider threats"" in cybersecurity?"	Insider threats in cybersecurity are security risks posed by employees or other individuals with authorised access to sensitive data who may leak, misuse, or compromise information either unintentionally or through malicious intent.
fbSEv*f:[|	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What are three measures to mitigate insider threats?	Three measures to mitigate insider threats are implementing strict access controls to limit data exposure, providing employees with regular security awareness training, and using multi-factor authentication to strengthen system security.
GB{gVt!+.:	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What is algorithmic bias in AI?	Algorithmic bias in artificial intelligence occurs when machine learning models produce unfair or inaccurate outcomes by discriminating against certain groups, often as a result of biased or unrepresentative training data.
ua7v>zCQ!6	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	Give three examples of areas where algorithmic bias has been observed.	Three areas where algorithmic bias has been observed are hiring decisions where candidates are unfairly filtered, credit approval processes that disadvantage certain groups, and law enforcement systems that disproportionately target minorities.
E/R6nO.J*~	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	Why is accountability a challenge in AI?	Accountability is a challenge in artificial intelligence because it is often unclear who is responsible when an AI system makes harmful or incorrect decisions, especially in high-stakes cases such as accidents caused by self-driving cars.
hT.!Q-LC:8	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What are three major ethical concerns in AI?	Three major ethical concerns in artificial intelligence are the presence of algorithmic bias that leads to unfair outcomes, the lack of accountability for decisions made by AI systems, and data privacy risks arising from the extensive use of personal data.
As/;s?P1p]	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	Why is data privacy a concern in AI?	Data privacy is a concern in artificial intelligence because AI systems rely on large datasets, and the ways this data is collected, stored, and used can raise risks of surveillance, lack of consent, and privacy violations for individuals.
DP4|F}q{]8	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What key principles should ethical AI frameworks promote?	Ethical artificial intelligence frameworks should promote principles such as fairness to avoid bias, transparency so that decision-making processes are explainable, and accountability to ensure responsibility for AI-driven outcomes.
c+SY@|R;]H	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What is a smart city?	A smart city is an urban area that integrates computing technologies such as artificial intelligence, the Internet of Things (IoT), and big data analytics to improve public services, optimise infrastructure management, and enhance environmental sustainability.
KYTDJf|Wm~	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	List three applications of computing in smart cities.	Three applications of computing in smart cities are AI-driven traffic management systems that reduce congestion, smart energy grids that improve efficiency and sustainability, and IoT-enabled building automation systems that optimise resource use.
v-~_{/izGh	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	How do AI-driven traffic management systems improve cities?	AI-driven traffic management systems improve cities by analysing real-time traffic data to reduce congestion, enhance road safety, and optimise public transportation schedules for better mobility.
"Ga{/#v-J8D"	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What is a smart grid?	A smart grid is an electricity distribution system that incorporates artificial intelligence and data analytics to manage energy flow more efficiently, reduce waste, integrate renewable energy, and optimise overall energy consumption.
LRml%0Bx8K	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What are two main challenges of smart cities related to data?	Two main challenges of smart cities related to data are ensuring the privacy of citizens’ personal information and maintaining robust cybersecurity to protect critical infrastructure.
Liss%/Z7F.	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	Who must collaborate to address smart city challenges?	To address smart city challenges, collaboration is required between governments that set policies, organisations that implement solutions, and technology providers that supply and manage digital infrastructure.
IOQqfy65.$	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	How does computing reflect cultural priorities, according to Computing and Global Cultures?	Computing reflects cultural priorities by prioritizing different aspects of technology based on societal values, such as community and connectivity in social media innovations (e.g., LINE in Japan) or efficiency in automation technologies in other societies.
KCtrWN)umn	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	Give an example of how technology is customized for cultural diversity.	An example of technology customised for cultural diversity is software localisation, such as Microsoft’s Indic keyboard that supports over 12 Indian languages. This adaptation ensures technology is relevant and accessible to users across different cultural and linguistic backgrounds.
Ju.[)Q?E<|	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	How do cultural norms influence technology use, with an example?	Cultural norms influence technology use by shaping how people interact with devices and services. For example, Japan’s emphasis on social etiquette led to the introduction of “manner mode” on mobile phones, allowing users to silence devices to avoid disturbing others in public spaces.
A+T%KFV9!O	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	How does technology serve as a platform for cultural expression?	Technology serves as a platform for cultural expression by enabling communities to share their heritage, stories, and traditions. Examples include blogs, social media, and online art galleries, such as the “First Voices” portal that archives Indigenous languages.
"g`2#F#+aTu"	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What role does technology play in cultural preservation?	Technology plays a role in cultural preservation by safeguarding endangered languages and traditions through digital archives, virtual museums, and educational apps. For instance, Duolingo offers courses in Hawaiian and Navajo to revive interest in these languages.
IXEPo$?|eR	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	Provide an example of technology adapted to unique cultural communication styles.	An example of technology adapted to cultural communication styles is the widespread use of WhatsApp in Brazil, where features like voice notes and instant photo sharing align with the culture’s preference for expressive and informal communication.
"P{O;1t#ScT"	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	How has technology addressed local challenges in specific regions?	Technology has addressed local challenges in regions such as Africa and Asia by introducing solar-powered internet solutions that provide connectivity in remote, off-grid areas, overcoming infrastructure limitations.
NFe22,r9_s	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What is an example of culturally sensitive health technology mentioned in the chapter?	An example of culturally sensitive health technology is the use of M-Health apps in Bangladesh and Nigeria, which provide health advice for expectant mothers that aligns with local health beliefs and practices.
z*c0p;b/Pd	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What ancient civilization contributed to the concept of algorithms, and how?	Ancient Mesopotamians contributed to the concept of algorithms through their advanced understanding of mathematics and astronomy, laying an early foundation for computational thinking.
PCnq%hT,)I	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	Who conceptualized binary numbers in ancient India, and in what context?	Indian scholar Pingala conceptualized binary numbers in the 2nd century BC through the Chandas Shastra, a text on Sanskrit prosody that used binary patterns to represent poetic meters.
A0@f6k*PF2	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What was Al-Khwarizmi’s contribution to computing during the Islamic Golden Age?	Al-Khwarizmi contributed to computing during the Islamic Golden Age by developing systematic methods for solving linear and quadratic equations in his work on algebra, which influenced computational logic and gave rise to the term “algorithm.”
r+<p{%hZtA	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What is an example of an African contribution to mathematical concepts relevant to computing?	An African contribution to mathematical concepts relevant to computing can be seen in the intricate geometric patterns in African art and the sophisticated architectural designs that demonstrate advanced mathematical understanding.
ljnhB;MFXn	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	How did Japan contribute to the post-war computing boom?	Japan contributed to the post-war computing boom through companies such as Sony and Toshiba, which pioneered transistor technology, leading to smaller electronic devices and compact, powerful gadgets.
G5Hk?|9o~%	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What is the digital divide, and how is it addressed according to Chapter 1 in Computing and Global Cultures?	The digital divide is the gap between individuals and communities who have access to modern digital technologies and those who do not. According to Chapter 1 in Computing and Global Cultures, it is addressed through affordable computing devices, digital literacy programmes, and improved internet infrastructure in underserved and remote areas.
&;?k,eX{T	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	How do cross-cultural teams in the tech industry drive innovation?	Cross-cultural teams in the tech industry drive innovation by combining diverse perspectives, which leads to creative problem-solving and products that better reflect global user needs and accessibility requirements.
wJZ=;%[4hn	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What is a challenge faced by global tech teams due to cultural differences?	A challenge faced by global tech teams due to cultural differences is that language barriers and differing work ethics, such as hierarchical versus egalitarian approaches, can cause misunderstandings and tensions in collaboration.
JU]Q66C6n;	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	How does computing act as a cultural connector?	Computing acts as a cultural connector by linking people through digital platforms such as social media, online forums, and language learning apps, enabling the exchange of ideas, traditions, and values across cultural boundaries.
w}=c-Y|X2k	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	Describe a way the Dominican Republic has used technology to boost its tourism industry.	The Dominican Republic has used technology to boost its tourism industry by leveraging platforms such as TripAdvisor and Instagram to promote its resorts, cultural events, and attractions to a global audience.
Pkzo6_APXS	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	How has TikTok influenced global cultural trends?	TikTok has influenced global cultural trends by popularising viral challenges, dance routines, and memes, which allow users to share traditions and lifestyles worldwide, fostering cross-cultural exchange.
O*s]zQoMg5	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What is an example of Netflix’s approach to cultural localization?	An example of Netflix’s approach to cultural localisation is producing original series such as *Sacred Games* in India and offering anime in Japan, tailoring its library to reflect local themes and cultural preferences.
3BOjUkY[S	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	Why is cultural sensitivity important in technology design?	Cultural sensitivity is important in technology design because it ensures that digital products adapt to diverse user norms, preferences, and interactions, which enhances inclusivity and user experience. An example is Netflix’s regional content curation.
"uB9~du5#QM"	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	How can cultural biases in AI development be addressed?	Cultural biases in AI development can be addressed by using diverse and representative datasets and by including development teams from varied cultural backgrounds to promote fairness and equitable outcomes.
e.NT632:N:	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What is a challenge in moderating content on global platforms like social media?	A challenge in moderating content on global platforms such as social media is accounting for cultural differences, since gestures or phrases acceptable in one culture may be offensive in another, requiring moderation policies that are culturally informed.
JvcJSmehk;	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	How does the chapter suggest fostering cultural competence in tech professionals?	The chapter suggests that tech professionals can foster cultural competence by participating in cultural awareness training, using collaborative tools that support inclusivity, and actively engaging in continuous learning opportunities that promote sensitivity to diverse perspectives.
o<pkiubd~k	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What interdisciplinary connection does the chapter highlight between linguistics and programming?	The chapter highlights an interdisciplinary connection between linguistics and programming by comparing concepts such as syntax, semantics, and pragmatics, showing how linguistic insights can inform culturally sensitive programming language design and natural language processing (NLP) systems.
r{vMMc||Sy	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What is a key lesson from the case studies about cultural contexts in technology design?	A key lesson from the case studies is that technology design must consider cultural contexts to ensure relevance and inclusivity. Examples include Netflix’s localised content strategy and the Dominican Republic’s use of digital platforms to expand its tourism industry.
"dPl#z(N},+"	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	How can Python programming reflect cultural inclusivity, according to the creative assessment?	Python programming can reflect cultural inclusivity by addressing culturally relevant issues, using localisation libraries, adopting culturally appropriate naming conventions, and designing user interfaces that respect different cultural norms.
m%YqF5;TYk	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What is a challenge faced by the Dominican Republic in its digital transformation?	A challenge faced by the Dominican Republic in its digital transformation is that rural areas often struggle with reliable internet connectivity and high technology costs, which limit equitable access to digital resources and opportunities.
dM=O&rk6:N	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	Why is understanding the cultural dimensions of computing important for future tech professionals?	Understanding the cultural dimensions of computing is important for future tech professionals because it enables them to design inclusive, effective, and culturally sensitive technological solutions while navigating the interconnected global relationship between technology and culture.
yHK7mHH&Pt	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	According to Chapter 1 of Discovering Computer Science, how do computers amplify human ingenuity?	Computers are tools that execute human-designed algorithms, transforming inputs into outputs to solve problems across various domains, from daily tasks to academic research.
K^29v+Oq~9	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What are the four steps of Polya’s problem-solving framework adapted for computational problem-solving in Chapter 1 of Discovering Computer Science?	The four adapted steps are: 1) understand the problem by identifying inputs, outputs, and conditions, 2) devise an algorithm to solve the problem, 3) translate the algorithm into a correct program, and 4) review the results and consider improvements (Chapter 1, Discovering Computer Science).
f@bL0{zc!@	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	In Chapter 1 of Discovering Computer Science, what is a computational problem defined as?	A computational problem is defined as a relationship between an input (initial information) and a desired output (result), where a computation transforms the input into the output (Chapter 1, Discovering Computer Science).
t>RErxt}1i	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What is top-down design in algorithm development, per Chapter 1 of Discovering Computer Science?	Top-down design is the process of breaking a complex problem into smaller, manageable subproblems (functional decomposition), starting from the main problem and working downward (Chapter 1, Discovering Computer Science).
E,b4~Ho?mL	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What is an algorithm, as defined in Chapter 1 of Discovering Computer Science?	An algorithm is a detailed, finite sequence of unambiguous steps that a computer can execute to transform a given input into the correct output to solve a problem (Chapter 1, Discovering Computer Science).
D`i8CKt(Cg	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What is pseudocode, as described in Chapter 1 of Discovering Computer Science?	Pseudocode is an informal, human-readable description of an algorithm’s steps that focuses on problem-solving logic without requiring strict programming language syntax (Chapter 1, Discovering Computer Science).
yX3,L{o1)(	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	Why is pseudocode useful in algorithm design, according to Chapter 1 of Discovering Computer Science?	Pseudocode is useful because it allows designers to focus on the logic and structure of a solution before coding, making it easier to refine, verify, and communicate the algorithm (Chapter 1, Discovering Computer Science).
f:2&RX4/%@	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What is a trace table, and how is it used in Chapter 1 of Discovering Computer Science?	A trace table is a tabular tool that records each step of an algorithm’s execution, including the step number or line executed, the current values of variables, and notes, in order to verify correctness and understand program behaviour (Chapter 1, Discovering Computer Science).
"M1#9Y,fd[4"	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What is a loop in an algorithm, as explained in Chapter 1 of Discovering Computer Science?	A loop is a control structure that repeats a set of instructions (the loop body) multiple times, often while iterating over items such as words or letters in a text until a condition changes (Chapter 1, Discovering Computer Science).
"A]+w(U#wst"	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What is a conditional statement in pseudocode, per Chapter 1 of Discovering Computer Science?	A conditional statement is an if-then construct that executes a specified action only when a stated condition is true, enabling decision-making within the algorithm (Chapter 1, Discovering Computer Science).
Am8SOXWWQv	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What is bottom-up implementation in algorithm design, as described in Chapter 1 of Discovering Computer Science?	Bottom-up implementation focuses on designing, coding, and testing solutions for the simplest leaf-level subproblems first, then composing these verified components to solve higher-level subproblems (Chapter 1, Discovering Computer Science).
ypI%%v3Sbv	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What is the role of variables in algorithms, as discussed in Chapter 1 of Discovering Computer Science?	Variables assign names to values that must be stored and reused, removing ambiguity and enabling later steps in the algorithm to reference and update those values (Chapter 1, Discovering Computer Science).
k@3bT`K3L:	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What is Python, as introduced in Chapter 1 of Discovering Computer Science?	Python is a widely used programming language valued for readability and versatility, and it is employed across domains such as data science, software engineering, and the digital humanities (Chapter 1, Discovering Computer Science).
"Ibi4?y9%#|"	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What is the definition of a computer in Chapter 1 of A Brief History of Computing?	A programmable electronic device that can process, store, and retrieve data according to a set of instructions or program.
MF)ZOJH8!`	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	According to Chapter 1 of A Brief History of Computing, what are the two basic parts of all computers?	Hardware (the physical machine) and software (instructions that tell the computer what to do).
n0VJQJrrmJ	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What are the main hardware components of a digital computer, as described in Chapter 1 of A Brief History of Computing?	Memory (for short-term storage), arithmetic/logic unit (for operations), control unit (for executing instructions), and peripherals (for input/output).
wY2L;)n!<y	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	How does Chapter 1 of A Brief History of Computing describe the original meaning of the word “computer”?	It referred to a person who performed calculations, not a machine.
vaDVL<3M|[	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What are the two distinct families of computing devices mentioned in Chapter 1 of A Brief History of Computing?	The two distinct families of computing devices are digital computers and analog computers (Chapter 1, A Brief History of Computing).
j;T,=?TjKl	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	How does a digital computer represent data, per Chapter 1 of A Brief History of Computing?	A digital computer represents data in binary format using the digits “0” and “1,” with electronic circuits such as transistors switching on or off to encode these binary states (Chapter 1, A Brief History of Computing).
r|8<H8U[oH	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	How does an analog computer represent data, according to Chapter 1 of A Brief History of Computing?	An analog computer represents data through physical quantities such as electric voltage, which vary continuously to model the properties of the system being studied (Chapter 1, A Brief History of Computing).
q<(fbf*fQl	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What is a key difference in operation between analog and digital computers, as noted in Chapter 1 of A Brief History of Computing?	Analog computers perform operations in parallel using continuously varying signals, while digital computers process information sequentially, executing one discrete step at a time (Chapter 1, A Brief History of Computing).
O;QG3,)0rk	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	Who did early foundational work on analog computation in the 19th century, per Chapter 1 of A Brief History of Computing?	Two pioneers of early analog computation were James Thompson, who invented the wheel-and-disc integrator, and Lord Kelvin, who built analog devices to solve integration problems (Chapter 1, A Brief History of Computing).
fV`ZO/5Lv_	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What was the purpose of Kelvin’s tide-predicting analog computer, as described in Chapter 1 of A Brief History of Computing?	Lord Kelvin’s tide-predicting analog computer was designed to forecast the ebb and flow of sea tides, including irregular variations in height, and it was used at the Port of Liverpool until the 1960s (Chapter 1, A Brief History of Computing).
ynzAsl0(BD	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What was Vannevar Bush’s differential analyzer, according to Chapter 1 of A Brief History of Computing?	Vannevar Bush’s differential analyzer was a large mechanical analog computer built to solve sixth-order differential equations using wheel-and-disc mechanisms (Chapter 1, A Brief History of Computing).
C}G{HdY+1-	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What were the physical characteristics of Bush’s differential analyzer, as noted in Chapter 1 of A Brief History of Computing?	Bush’s differential analyzer weighed 100 tons, occupied the space of a large table, and contained wheels, discs, shafts, gears, 150 motors, and miles of wiring (Chapter 1, A Brief History of Computing).
H^CP4_qur.	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	Why were analog computers replaced by digital computers after World War II, per Chapter 1 of A Brief History of Computing?	Analog computers were bulky and vulnerable to noise interference, whereas digital computers were more reliable, versatile, and efficient, which led to their replacement after World War II (Chapter 1, A Brief History of Computing).
G=vp;<[<]T	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	How did early digital computers use vacuum tubes, according to Chapter 1 of A Brief History of Computing?	Early digital computers used vacuum tubes to store binary information, with the on/off states of the tubes representing “1” and “0,” but the tubes were bulky and produced significant heat (Chapter 1, A Brief History of Computing).
Nz8atbf}aK	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What were the reliability issues with vacuum tubes in early digital computers, as described in Chapter 1 of A Brief History of Computing?	Vacuum tubes in early digital computers often became unstable over time, and air leaks could cause oxygen to react with the hot filament, damaging the tube and reducing reliability (Chapter 1, A Brief History of Computing).
C`eF7bss3>	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What is a transistor, and how did it improve on vacuum tubes, according to Chapter 1 of A Brief History of Computing?	A transistor is a three-terminal solid-state device that controls current or voltage. It was smaller, consumed less power, generated less heat, and was more reliable than vacuum tubes (Chapter 1, A Brief History of Computing).
Md3k;pOC()	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What was the impact of transistors on the second generation of computers, per Chapter 1 of A Brief History of Computing?	Transistors made the second generation of computers smaller, faster, and more reliable, replacing the bulky vacuum tubes used in the first generation (Chapter 1, A Brief History of Computing).
yA5sDz7Z{c	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What is an integrated circuit, as described in Chapter 1 of A Brief History of Computing?	An integrated circuit is a semiconductor chip that contains multiple electronic components—such as transistors, resistors, capacitors, and diodes—integrated into a compact unit (Chapter 1, A Brief History of Computing).
O.:kDst-^(	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	How did integrated circuits improve computing, per Chapter 1 of A Brief History of Computing?	Integrated circuits allowed massive computational power to be placed on a small chip, were energy-efficient, and could be mass-produced, which enabled the third generation of computers (Chapter 1, A Brief History of Computing).
I_>M8%7nEf	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What is Moore’s Law, as mentioned in Chapter 1 of A Brief History of Computing?	Moore’s Law, formulated by Gordon Moore in the mid-1960s, states that the number of transistors per unit area on a chip doubles approximately every 1–2 years (Chapter 1, A Brief History of Computing).
y[}ptSRu*+	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What is a microprocessor, according to Chapter 1 of A Brief History of Computing?	A microprocessor is a semiconductor chip that integrates the core functions of a computer’s central processing unit, including the arithmetic/logic unit and control unit, onto a single device (Chapter 1, A Brief History of Computing).
A|L}Gby;/K	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What was the impact of the microprocessor on the fourth generation of computers, per Chapter 1 of A Brief History of Computing?	The microprocessor allowed thousands of integrated circuits to be placed on a single chip, making it possible to build compact computers small enough to fit in the palm of a hand, in contrast to earlier room-sized machines (Chapter 1, A Brief History of Computing).
BZYQA/Wmv1	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What is the von Neumann architecture, as described in Chapter 1 of A Brief History of Computing?	The von Neumann architecture is a computer design in which a single memory stores both instructions and data, and the system consists of a CPU (with a control unit and arithmetic/logic unit), memory, and input/output components (Chapter 1, A Brief History of Computing).
g,luSTjVih	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What is the key advantage of the von Neumann architecture, according to Chapter 1 of A Brief History of Computing?	The key advantage of the von Neumann architecture is that programs can be reconfigured simply by loading new instructions into memory, eliminating the need for manual rewiring as required in earlier computers like ENIAC (Chapter 1, A Brief History of Computing).
O!5>oIGemQ	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What is the Fetch and Execute cycle in the von Neumann architecture, per Chapter 1 of A Brief History of Computing?	The Fetch and Execute cycle is the repeating process where the control unit fetches the next instruction from memory, decodes it, and then executes it sequentially (Chapter 1, A Brief History of Computing).
cSL9/]-x?j	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What is a limitation of the von Neumann architecture, as noted in Chapter 1 of A Brief History of Computing?	A limitation of the von Neumann architecture is that it is restricted to sequential processing and is inefficient for tasks that require parallel computation (Chapter 1, A Brief History of Computing).
gpoQW&N*$k	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What is the role of the control unit in the von Neumann architecture, according to Chapter 1 of A Brief History of Computing?	In the von Neumann architecture, the control unit manages execution by fetching instructions from memory, decoding them, and directing their execution using the program counter (Chapter 1, A Brief History of Computing).
jm;raetDYY	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What is an operating system, as explained in Chapter 1 of A Brief History of Computing?	An operating system is system software that manages a computer’s hardware and other resources and serves as an intermediary between application programs and the hardware—for example, Windows and UNIX (Chapter 1, A Brief History of Computing).
c)4~M?uQ2@	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What is the significance of the World Wide Web, per Chapter 1 of A Brief History of Computing?	The World Wide Web enables businesses to compete in global markets and facilitates worldwide communication and information sharing by linking documents and services over the internet (Chapter 1, A Brief History of Computing).
B3T8$c^v-a	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	How has modern technology impacted society, according to Chapter 2 of A Brief History of Computing?	It has increased productivity, automated tedious tasks, and enabled instant global communication via tools like email, video calls, and social media.
zV:b78%Cax	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What environmental concern is raised in Chapter 2 of A Brief History of Computing regarding modern technology?	The need for sustainable development to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and achieve a carbon-neutral lifestyle.
o=-*,85jN$	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	Why were bases 5, 10, and 20 common in early societies, per Chapter 2 of A Brief History of Computing?	Bases 5, 10, and 20 were common because they reflect human anatomy: five fingers on one hand, ten fingers on both hands, and twenty fingers and toes (Chapter 2, A Brief History of Computing).
Hd~|6^djNu	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What is the sexagesimal (base 60) system, and how is it still used today, according to Chapter 2 of A Brief History of Computing?	The sexagesimal system is a base-60 number system inherited from the Babylonians, and it remains in use today for measuring time (60 minutes per hour, 60 seconds per minute) and angles (Chapter 2, A Brief History of Computing).
i&.YYl^WQv	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	How did the Babylonians represent numbers in their sexagesimal system, per Chapter 2 of A Brief History of Computing?	Babylonian numeration used two cuneiform symbols (for 1 and 10) arranged positionally to represent large numbers and fractions, originally without a zero or a decimal point (Chapter 2, A Brief History of Computing).
GX9QBdB0ZH	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What is the significance of the Plimpton 322 tablet, as described in Chapter 2 of A Brief History of Computing?	The Plimpton 322 tablet (c. 1700 BC) lists Pythagorean triples—integer solutions to a² + b² = c²—demonstrating Babylonian knowledge related to the Pythagorean theorem long before Greek sources (Chapter 2, A Brief History of Computing).
rN1:*]eN2s	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What practical problems did the Egyptians use mathematics to solve, according to Chapter 2 of A Brief History of Computing?	Ancient Egyptians applied mathematics to practical tasks such as measuring time, predicting Nile floods, surveying land area, keeping accounts and books, and calculating taxes (Chapter 2, A Brief History of Computing).
j~exD$UQnW	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What is the Rhind Papyrus, and what is its significance, per Chapter 2 of A Brief History of Computing?	The Rhind Papyrus is an ancient Egyptian mathematical text (traditionally dated to 1832 BC and copied by the scribe Ahmose) used as a textbook containing arithmetic and geometric problems and methods (Chapter 2, A Brief History of Computing).
DDQ]q*bp38	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What contributions did the Greeks make to Western civilization, per Chapter 2 of A Brief History of Computing?	Greek civilization contributed foundational advances in mathematics, logic, philosophy, astronomy, politics (including the invention of democracy), drama, and architecture (Chapter 2, A Brief History of Computing).
im:)_!v>/W	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	Who was Pythagoras, and what mathematical contributions did he make, per Chapter 2 of A Brief History of Computing?	Pythagoras was a philosopher-mathematician who founded the Pythagorean school; he is credited with the Pythagorean theorem and with identifying simple numerical ratios underlying musical harmony (Chapter 2, A Brief History of Computing).
i(c$F-gDVE	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What is Thales’s theorem, as described in Chapter 2 of A Brief History of Computing?	Thales’s theorem states that if points A, B, and C lie on a circle with AC as the diameter, then angle ∠ABC is a right angle (Chapter 2, A Brief History of Computing).
J)J:y+j4zG	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	Who was Euclid, and what is his significance in Chapter 2 of A Brief History of Computing?	Euclid was a Hellenistic mathematician in Alexandria known as the “father of geometry”; his work *Elements* systematically derived geometric theorems from axioms and shaped mathematical reasoning for centuries (Chapter 2, A Brief History of Computing).
cY3Q[d%0B<	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	Who are considered the grandfathers of computing in Chapter 3 of A Brief History of Computing?	Charles Babbage and George Boole.
DP6~)/%PVO	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What contributions did Leibniz make to computing, according to Chapter 3 of A Brief History of Computing?	Leibniz contributed to computing by inventing the binary number system, designing the Step Reckoner calculating machine, and co-developing calculus with Newton (Chapter 3, A Brief History of Computing).
m[-UgvzX=Y	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What is the Step Reckoner, as described in Chapter 3 of A Brief History of Computing?	The Step Reckoner was a calculating machine developed by Leibniz between 1672 and 1694. It could perform addition, subtraction, multiplication, division, and root extraction, significantly advancing mechanical computation (Chapter 3, A Brief History of Computing).
j>O_%hXJ6T	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	How does the binary number system work, as explained in Chapter 3 of A Brief History of Computing?	The binary number system uses only the digits 0 and 1, with values determined positionally. For example, 1001.01₂ equals 9.25 in decimal (8 + 1 + 0.25). This positional system underpins modern computing (Chapter 3, A Brief History of Computing).
O&%^N^}Dx{	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	Why is the binary number system significant in computing, per Chapter 3 of A Brief History of Computing?	The binary system is significant because it allows digits to be represented by on/off states (1 = on, 0 = off), enabling complex operations to be carried out through electronic relay circuits and later transistors (Chapter 3, A Brief History of Computing).
fog:L)nj-Y	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	How is a decimal number converted to binary, according to Chapter 3 of A Brief History of Computing?	To convert a decimal number to binary, divide the number by 2, record the remainder, and repeat until the quotient is 0. Reading the remainders from bottom to top gives the binary number. For example, 25 converts to 11001₂ (Chapter 3, A Brief History of Computing).
A!.XXs(-`)	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What are octal and hexadecimal systems, and why are they used in computing, per Chapter 3 of A Brief History of Computing?	The octal system (base-8) and hexadecimal system (base-16) are used because they provide compact representations of binary numbers, making conversions easier: each octal digit equals 3 binary digits, and each hexadecimal digit equals 4 binary digits (Chapter 3, A Brief History of Computing).
x}mAzl{W00	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What was Charles Babbage’s motivation for designing the Difference Engine, according to Chapter 3 of A Brief History of Computing?	Charles Babbage designed the Difference Engine to eliminate human errors in mathematical tables by mechanically computing polynomial functions (Chapter 3, A Brief History of Computing).
I]c!x^bAB>	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What could the Difference Engine compute, as described in Chapter 3 of A Brief History of Computing?	The Difference Engine could compute polynomials of degree 4 on 15-digit numbers, as well as logarithmic and trigonometric functions through polynomial approximations (Chapter 3, A Brief History of Computing).
B{LeodCEk-	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	Who built the first working Difference Engine, according to Chapter 3 of A Brief History of Computing?	The first working Difference Engine was built by George and Edward Schuetz in 1853, based on Babbage’s design, with funding from the Swedish government (Chapter 3, A Brief History of Computing).
Gav}G;FKe?	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What was the Analytic Engine, as described in Chapter 3 of A Brief History of Computing?	The Analytic Engine, designed by Babbage in 1834, was a mechanical general-purpose computer. It had a processor (the “mill”), memory (the “store”), and input/output handled by punched cards (Chapter 3, A Brief History of Computing).
I4~1K8w%Eo	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	Who was Lady Ada Lovelace, and why is she significant, per Chapter 3 of A Brief History of Computing?	Lady Ada Lovelace was a mathematician who collaborated with Babbage and is considered the first computer programmer. She created the first published algorithm, designed for the Analytic Engine, to calculate Bernoulli numbers (Chapter 3, A Brief History of Computing).
"Oq^4H#}xJR"	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What predictions did Lady Ada Lovelace make about the Analytic Engine, according to Chapter 3 of A Brief History of Computing?	Ada Lovelace predicted that the Analytic Engine could one day compose music, produce graphics, and solve mathematical and scientific problems, showing that it could manipulate symbols beyond numbers (Chapter 3, A Brief History of Computing).
AZ&(/%pxtj	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What was Lovelace’s contribution to the Analytic Engine, as noted in Chapter 3 of A Brief History of Computing?	Ada Lovelace translated and annotated Menabrea’s memoir on Babbage’s machine, adding extensive notes and publishing the first computer program, which calculated Bernoulli numbers (Chapter 3, A Brief History of Computing).
"p/J1o]L!D#"	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What contributions did George Boole make to computing, according to Chapter 3 of A Brief History of Computing?	George Boole developed Boolean algebra, a symbolic logic system that became the foundation of digital circuits and modern computing (Chapter 3, A Brief History of Computing).
f7u:sq4A@R	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What is Boolean algebra, as described in Chapter 3 of A Brief History of Computing?	Boolean algebra is a mathematical system using 0 (empty set) and 1 (universal set), with operations such as union (+), intersection (×), and difference (−), all following algebraic laws (Chapter 3, A Brief History of Computing).
tl^/vySVPX	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	How does Boolean algebra represent classes, per Chapter 3 of A Brief History of Computing?	In Boolean algebra, symbols like x and y represent classes. Their intersection is xy, their union is x + y, and their complement (not x) is 1 − x (Chapter 3, A Brief History of Computing).
kSZF.M.6+@	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	How does Boole encode Aristotle’s syllogism “All X’s are Y’s” algebraically, according to Chapter 3 of A Brief History of Computing?	Boole encodes the syllogism “All X’s are Y’s” as x(1 − y) = 0, meaning there are no objects that are both X and not Y (Chapter 3, A Brief History of Computing).
kS`PC^KS{w	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	Name three key algebraic laws in Boole’s logic, as listed in Chapter 3 of A Brief History of Computing.	Three key algebraic laws in Boole’s logic are: 1) x + 0 = x (additive identity), 2) xy = yx (commutative law), and 3) x(y + z) = xy + xz (distributive law) (Chapter 3, A Brief History of Computing).
MLqY*w4,s0	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	Who was Claude Shannon, and what was his key contribution, according to Chapter 3 of A Brief History of Computing?	Claude Shannon was a 20th-century mathematician who, in his 1937 Master’s thesis, showed that Boolean logic could be applied to simplify the design of digital circuits and switching systems (Chapter 3, A Brief History of Computing).
m1l.~RJ3X-	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	How did Shannon apply Boole’s logic to switching circuits, per Chapter 3 of A Brief History of Computing?	Shannon demonstrated that electrical switches could represent binary digits (1 = on, 0 = off) and that these circuits could carry out Boolean operations such as AND, OR, and NOT (Chapter 3, A Brief History of Computing).
F@Ty,{5j93	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 01 - What is Computing?	What is the significance of Shannon’s Master’s thesis, as described in Chapter 3 of A Brief History of Computing?	Shannon’s Master’s thesis provided the theoretical foundation for designing digital circuits, forming the basis of all modern electronic computers (Chapter 3, A Brief History of Computing).
