#separator:tab
#html:false
#guid column:1
#notetype column:2
#deck column:3
n47buha=HR	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 10 - Strategic and Enterprise IT Management: Aligning IT with Business Goals	What are the four major research themes linking digital technology and enterprise knowledge management?	"According to the research article ""Digital technology and enterprise knowledge management: literature review and theoretical framework construction,"" the literature clusters into four themes: (1) digital technology and customer knowledge management, (2) application dilemmas and problems of applying digital tech in knowledge management, (3) digital transformation strategies for organizational knowledge management, and (4) the influence of digital technology on knowledge management and performance."
J-[-B|Haw_	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 10 - Strategic and Enterprise IT Management: Aligning IT with Business Goals	Which years mark the two main phases of research growth in this field?	The field shows an embryonic phase from 2000–2016 with low output and a rapid-growth phase from 2017–2021 with a surge in publications, as reported in the article’s bibliometric analysis.
mSRvf)73DG	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 10 - Strategic and Enterprise IT Management: Aligning IT with Business Goals	How many papers were finally analyzed and where were they sourced from?	The study analyzed 326 relevant publications sourced from the Web of Science Core Collection after filtering an initial set of 613 records using defined search terms and inclusion criteria.
t1btVFu-=b	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 10 - Strategic and Enterprise IT Management: Aligning IT with Business Goals	What search strategy was used to capture digital technology within knowledge management?	"The article states the search string was TS=((""digital tech*"" OR ""cloud computing"" OR ""big data"" OR ""hadoop"" OR ""artificial intelligence"" OR ""AI"" OR ""blockchain"") AND (""knowledge management"")) with filters for English-language articles."
H1dg9-_X?K	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 10 - Strategic and Enterprise IT Management: Aligning IT with Business Goals	What tool was used to visualize and cluster research topics?	VOSviewer was used to perform bibliometric mapping and co‑occurrence analysis of titles, abstracts, and keywords to derive topic clusters and research trends.
gkE!aHWDHd	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 10 - Strategic and Enterprise IT Management: Aligning IT with Business Goals	How was the term co‑occurrence network constructed for topic discovery?	From 326 abstracts, 7,512 terms were extracted; those appearing at least 10 times were considered. The top 60% most relevant (107 terms) were retained after cleaning and synonym merging, then clustered with VOSviewer into four themes, according to the article.
Qk|>Ok1m^6	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 10 - Strategic and Enterprise IT Management: Aligning IT with Business Goals	Which journal publishes the most on digital tech in knowledge management?	Journal of Knowledge Management tops the list in publication counts on this topic, with significant contributions also from Journal of Business Research, Management Decision, Expert Systems with Applications, and Technological Forecasting & Social Change.
m&Oa0@bYL_	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 10 - Strategic and Enterprise IT Management: Aligning IT with Business Goals	Which countries most frequently publish in this area?	China has the highest number of publications, followed by the United States and Italy; the article notes developed countries overall show higher attention and influence than developing countries in this domain.
b`z*QU]2}w	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 10 - Strategic and Enterprise IT Management: Aligning IT with Business Goals	What is the most highly cited paper and why is it important?	“Knowledge warehouse: an architectural integration of knowledge management, decision support, artificial intelligence and data warehousing” is the most cited; it proposes a knowledge‑warehouse architecture that captures, encodes, retrieves, and shares knowledge across the organization, laying early technical foundations.
erPcy+)DG3	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 10 - Strategic and Enterprise IT Management: Aligning IT with Business Goals	How does digital technology support customer knowledge management in practice?	Cloud computing, big data analytics, IoT, social media, and data mining support customer knowledge management by revealing patterns, segmenting users, enabling forecasting, and personalizing services, as synthesized in the article.
Ef4L=%($?J	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 10 - Strategic and Enterprise IT Management: Aligning IT with Business Goals	What industry examples illustrate digital customer knowledge management?	Travel firms use big data to understand patterns and forecast demand; automotive companies integrate IoT streams to combine real‑time information and user experience for better decisions—both examples summarized in the article.
hDSB[mO$80	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 10 - Strategic and Enterprise IT Management: Aligning IT with Business Goals	What problems arise if firms over‑rely on machine‑driven customer data?	Machine‑driven collection can miss deeper, subjective, and hedonic dimensions of customer knowledge; therefore, managerial judgment and careful evaluation of social media data are required to extract actually useful insights.
Pua^GLg`+r	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 10 - Strategic and Enterprise IT Management: Aligning IT with Business Goals	What barriers do SMEs face when adopting digital tech for knowledge management?	Resource constraints, unclear strategic orientation, asymmetric network power, limited vendor support, and low trust/confidence in emerging technologies commonly hinder SME adoption, as reported by the article’s reviewed studies.
"ia#zd0.uk`"	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 10 - Strategic and Enterprise IT Management: Aligning IT with Business Goals	What obstacles do large enterprises report when implementing big data for knowledge work?	Common obstacles include executive non‑support, cybersecurity threats, data quality and integration issues, insufficient IT infrastructure, and a shortage of data scientists, particularly noted in oil and gas case surveys.
A(+0h6wHR6	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 10 - Strategic and Enterprise IT Management: Aligning IT with Business Goals	How can customer adoption limit firms’ digital knowledge initiatives?	Customer skepticism about credibility and security, plus limited or impersonal system functionality that diminishes experience, can depress adoption and blunt knowledge gains from digital channels.
rkP5BcB69$	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 10 - Strategic and Enterprise IT Management: Aligning IT with Business Goals	What are examples of digital knowledge management systems designed to improve processes?	Examples include a supplier KMS combining OLAP, neural networks, and case‑based reasoning; a patent KMS to spark inventor creativity; a mobile‑cloud KMS to capture lessons learned in construction SMEs; and the AIDAF architecture for healthcare to enable cloud/mobile/big‑data strategy and informal knowledge sharing.
paG~MRSUD!	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 10 - Strategic and Enterprise IT Management: Aligning IT with Business Goals	How can blockchain be applied to knowledge exchange and transactions?	Designs include a knowledge‑consortium blockchain with smart contracts and a crypto “knowledge coil” to support secure exchange, and a cross‑enterprise exchange framework embedding blockchain and edge computing so firms can trade services/knowledge while focusing on core business.
Gk^SK}pp%E	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 10 - Strategic and Enterprise IT Management: Aligning IT with Business Goals	What worker‑level strategies support digital knowledge in production settings?	A digital knowledge management process tailored for industrial workers can raise flexibility, efficiency, and productivity by structuring how frontline staff capture, access, and apply knowledge digitally.
vRp{^E^O}i	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 10 - Strategic and Enterprise IT Management: Aligning IT with Business Goals	How does big data analytics translate into performance gains through knowledge management?	Empirical studies summarized in the article show big data analytics improves knowledge management practices, which in turn bolsters innovation capability, customer relationship performance, competitive advantage, and ultimately financial results (a mediated pathway).
JsnePd1]r)	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 10 - Strategic and Enterprise IT Management: Aligning IT with Business Goals	How does digital technology foster knowledge creation?	Big‑data‑driven AI supports customer knowledge creation, user knowledge creation, and external market knowledge creation by uncovering patterns and augmenting decision‑making.
M/G*HRO)>$	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 10 - Strategic and Enterprise IT Management: Aligning IT with Business Goals	How does digital technology enhance knowledge sharing?	Digital platforms and analytics enable employee knowledge sharing that improves service quality and customer satisfaction, and facilitate enterprise–consumer co‑creation that accelerates service innovation.
qKNf1lRw@4	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 10 - Strategic and Enterprise IT Management: Aligning IT with Business Goals	What framework does the study propose for understanding digital tech in enterprise knowledge management?	The article proposes an antecedents–process–outcomes framework with mediators and moderators: antecedents (technical, organizational, environmental), mediators (e.g., innovation capability, competitive advantage), moderators (e.g., AI system quality, organizational agility, digital business intensity), and outcomes (innovation, capabilities, performance).
P$o1OUc,$w	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 10 - Strategic and Enterprise IT Management: Aligning IT with Business Goals	What technical antecedents most affect adoption?	Technical complexity, availability, comparative advantage, cybersecurity risks, data quality/integration, and IT infrastructure are highlighted as key technical antecedents influencing adoption decisions.
LRi7~P!2XF	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 10 - Strategic and Enterprise IT Management: Aligning IT with Business Goals	What organizational antecedents matter most?	Budget/resources, strategic orientation, intra‑network power relations, managers’ trust and confidence in technology, and visible executive support are emphasized as organizational antecedents.
Ie!b@dg&2&	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 10 - Strategic and Enterprise IT Management: Aligning IT with Business Goals	What environmental antecedents should firms watch?	Customer trust and orientation toward digital channels, and the degree of vendor/technology‑supplier support in selection and implementation, are cited as critical environmental antecedents.
P@}x,s!Vzv	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 10 - Strategic and Enterprise IT Management: Aligning IT with Business Goals	Which mediators commonly link digital knowledge management to performance?	Innovation capability, competitive advantage, rational decision‑making quality, and sustainable marketing effectiveness often mediate the path from digital knowledge practices to performance outcomes.
cvH@13_CP_	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 10 - Strategic and Enterprise IT Management: Aligning IT with Business Goals	What moderators strengthen or weaken digital KM’s benefits?	AI system quality strengthens the link between digital KM and service quality; organizational agility boosts the link between digital KM and competitive advantage; and digital business intensity amplifies the effect of KM on process/service innovation.
y|Ljv))Q:C	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 10 - Strategic and Enterprise IT Management: Aligning IT with Business Goals	What innovation outcomes are associated with digital knowledge management?	Documented innovation outcomes include higher rates of service innovation and process innovation, along with complementary improvements such as process refinement, better services, and higher customer satisfaction.
rFeIx,_*f{	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 10 - Strategic and Enterprise IT Management: Aligning IT with Business Goals	What capability gains does digital knowledge management enable?	Firms report gains in innovation capability, competitiveness, strategic flexibility, profitability, and more rational, data‑informed decision‑making.
M3V6V(e<eF	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 10 - Strategic and Enterprise IT Management: Aligning IT with Business Goals	Which performance metrics improve when digital KM is effective?	Supply‑chain performance, project performance, financial performance, sales performance, and customer relationship performance are all reported to improve when digital KM is implemented well.
OoR^joJq];	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 10 - Strategic and Enterprise IT Management: Aligning IT with Business Goals	What emerging keywords signal current research frontiers?	Newer keywords include open innovation, knowledge sharing, innovation, innovation performance, Industry 4.0, firm performance, sustainability, and knowledge creation—indicating where scholarship is heading.
Pk<INpYr6d	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 10 - Strategic and Enterprise IT Management: Aligning IT with Business Goals	What are promising directions for research on KM and innovation?	Promising directions include industry‑specific studies (e.g., traditional manufacturing’s digital transformation), and design science work on building effective digital KM systems and strategies that explicitly drive innovation outcomes.
C$L*OIikB+	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 10 - Strategic and Enterprise IT Management: Aligning IT with Business Goals	How should future work link digital KM and sustainability?	Future studies can examine how digital knowledge practices enable social and environmental transformation (not just firm‑level sustainability), clarifying mechanisms and barriers to sustainable development via partner‑network knowledge (customers, suppliers, governments).
rHm1J5A}2(	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 10 - Strategic and Enterprise IT Management: Aligning IT with Business Goals	What tensions exist between knowledge creation and external sharing, and how can digital tech help?	While internal sharing can catalyze creation, external sharing may dilute competitive edge; digital tech can help balance by enabling firms to share “idle” or non‑core knowledge resources securely (e.g., blockchain‑mediated exchanges) while protecting core know‑how.
KvQFVY5pSz	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 10 - Strategic and Enterprise IT Management: Aligning IT with Business Goals	What managerial takeaway should leaders act on first?	Leaders should explicitly recognize the central role of cloud, big data, AI, and related tools in the knowledge lifecycle—acquisition, creation, sharing, and use—and resource a roadmap to embed these tools in processes, org structures, and governance.
jp|B-q4Mqi	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 10 - Strategic and Enterprise IT Management: Aligning IT with Business Goals	How can firms optimize customer knowledge management with digital tools?	Integrate consumer data into richer usage contexts (scenario innovation, quantified self), continuously iterate user profiles, and combine machine insights with human judgment to capture subjective and experiential dimensions.
kMo1&^>@Lt	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 10 - Strategic and Enterprise IT Management: Aligning IT with Business Goals	What is the study’s primary theoretical contribution?	It maps and visualizes the digital‑KM landscape with bibliometrics and integrates scattered results into a cohesive framework that specifies antecedents, mediators, moderators, and outcomes for clearer cumulative science.
HHb%I,,P=o	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 10 - Strategic and Enterprise IT Management: Aligning IT with Business Goals	Why was a systematic review needed now?	Literature on digital tech and knowledge management has grown rapidly since 2017 but remains fragmented; a bibliometric synthesis was needed to identify hotspots, structure themes, and propose an integrative model.
E5;^v:tFZ+	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 10 - Strategic and Enterprise IT Management: Aligning IT with Business Goals	How has digital technology changed the information environment for KM?	Explosive data growth, higher complexity, and uneven reliability have increased the challenge of transforming data into robust organizational knowledge, elevating the need for integrated digital‑KM approaches.
MA}jG|zPT_	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 10 - Strategic and Enterprise IT Management: Aligning IT with Business Goals	Which digital technologies are most frequently examined in this literature?	The core set includes big data analytics, cloud computing, artificial intelligence, and blockchain; studies also cover IoT and social platforms in customer and operational knowledge contexts.
{bGP~oL>3	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 10 - Strategic and Enterprise IT Management: Aligning IT with Business Goals	What steps comprised the article’s methodology?	The authors performed a WOS‑based search and screening, conducted descriptive bibliometrics (quantity, journals, countries, citations), used VOSviewer for co‑occurrence and clustering, and built an influence‑mechanism framework from the reviewed studies.
PH|UtHVp$!	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 10 - Strategic and Enterprise IT Management: Aligning IT with Business Goals	Why do developed countries currently dominate in volume and influence?	The article observes that, relative to developing nations, developed countries show higher attention and citation impact in this research area—likely reflecting stronger R&D ecosystems, digital infrastructure, and funding.
"tV#pwa_GuJ"	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 10 - Strategic and Enterprise IT Management: Aligning IT with Business Goals	What is “digital business intensity,” and why does it matter?	Digital business intensity measures the strategic investment level in emerging digital technologies (e.g., big data, cloud, social, mobile); higher intensity strengthens the positive effects of knowledge management on innovation outcomes.
LUor3K>QZ^	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 10 - Strategic and Enterprise IT Management: Aligning IT with Business Goals	What questions should boards and executives ask when big data yields unusually high profits?	They should probe the risks taken to achieve the gains, the sustainability of those profits, and whether knowledge practices are genuinely improving decisions or masking risk—an oversight mindset aligned with the article’s emphasis on linking digital KM to real performance drivers.
OVR[HRC3Ky	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 10 - Strategic and Enterprise IT Management: Aligning IT with Business Goals	What practical steps mitigate adoption barriers identified in the review?	Prioritize leadership sponsorship; invest in data quality, integration, and security; upskill or hire data scientists; secure vendor support; design human‑in‑the‑loop processes to capture tacit/experiential knowledge; and educate customers to build trust.
wg|jw;wK}V	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 10 - Strategic and Enterprise IT Management: Aligning IT with Business Goals	How does digital KM improve tourism and hospitality performance specifically?	AI‑enabled knowledge sharing raises employee service quality and customer satisfaction; big‑data‑driven KM supports sustainable marketing and higher online ratings via improved service innovation.
"hVmUuyM#&a"	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 10 - Strategic and Enterprise IT Management: Aligning IT with Business Goals	How does IoT contribute to operational knowledge in manufacturing and automotive?	IoT fuses real‑time sensor streams with experiential knowledge, enabling collaborative diagnostics, predictive maintenance, and design feedback that improve decisions across the value chain.
b%%e2q]SGs	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 10 - Strategic and Enterprise IT Management: Aligning IT with Business Goals	What risk should firms avoid when automating customer insight pipelines?	They should avoid treating algorithmic outputs as complete customer knowledge; combining analytics with qualitative methods and domain expertise preserves hedonic, contextual, and subjective aspects critical to value creation.
"KLPv88yT#g"	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 10 - Strategic and Enterprise IT Management: Aligning IT with Business Goals	What is the overall conclusion about the state of this research domain?	The article concludes that publications are rising steadily (especially post‑2017), knowledge‑management journals lead the venue mix with strong contributions from business and computer‑science outlets, developed countries drive output and influence, and four core themes define the field; it also consolidates antecedents, mediators/moderators, outcomes, and impact paths for future work.
