#separator:tab
#html:false
#guid column:1
#notetype column:2
#deck column:3
kNQgrFtS,^	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 03 - Principles of Computer Science	According to Chapter 3 of Culturally Responsive Computing, how do cultural factors shape programming language syntax and semantics?	According to Chapter 3 of Culturally Responsive Computing, cultural factors shape programming language syntax and semantics by influencing the choice of keywords, the level of verbosity or conciseness, and the methods of error handling. These design decisions reflect broader cultural values such as directness, efficiency, clarity, or harmony.
I}Tz~[>ds^	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 03 - Principles of Computer Science	According to Chapter 3 of Culturally Responsive Computing, how does culture affect error handling in programming languages?	According to Chapter 3 of Culturally Responsive Computing, culture affects error handling in programming languages by shaping preferences for different approaches. Cultures that value transparency prefer explicit mechanisms such as exceptions, while cultures that prioritise harmony often favour more indirect signals such as return values or flags.
ukg`S0Xzwq	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 03 - Principles of Computer Science	According to Chapter 3 of Culturally Responsive Computing, what cultural values are reflected in functional programming?	According to Chapter 3 of Culturally Responsive Computing, functional programming reflects cultural values such as abstraction, formal reasoning, immutability, and mathematical elegance, which are rooted in Western academic traditions.
d2q{|Pa37i	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 03 - Principles of Computer Science	According to Chapter 3 of Culturally Responsive Computing, what cultural views are reflected in object-oriented programming (OOP)?	According to Chapter 3 of Culturally Responsive Computing, object-oriented programming (OOP) reflects cultural views that value hierarchical and modular thinking, place emphasis on reusability and standardisation, and prioritise structured approaches to managing complexity.
dJH-BZB9r?	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 03 - Principles of Computer Science	According to Chapter 3 of Culturally Responsive Computing, what cultural attitudes are reflected in declarative programming?	According to Chapter 3 of Culturally Responsive Computing, declarative programming reflects cultural attitudes that emphasise goal-oriented problem solving, a preference for harmony in expressing solutions, and concise communication of ideas.
I6kP-+_IGE	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 03 - Principles of Computer Science	According to Chapter 3 of Culturally Responsive Computing, what role does cultural familiarity play in programming language adoption?	According to Chapter 3 of Culturally Responsive Computing, cultural familiarity plays a significant role in programming language adoption because developers often prefer languages that align with their cultural background, educational experiences, or the dominant practices of their local industry. This reinforces the popularity and sustained use of particular programming languages within specific regions.
"P=;LE0#!<{"	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 03 - Principles of Computer Science	How can programming language popularity affect developers’ careers?	Programming language popularity affects developers’ careers by shaping demand in the job market, influencing salaries, and determining career trajectories, as industry and regional adoption drive the skills employers seek.
N8&F[hO}u,	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 03 - Principles of Computer Science	According to Chapter 3 of Culturally Responsive Computing, what are strategies for effective cross-cultural communication in programming teams?	According to Chapter 3 of Culturally Responsive Computing, effective cross-cultural communication in programming teams can be achieved by establishing clear communication protocols, using simple and unambiguous language, practising active listening, being mindful of time zone differences, and fostering an inclusive environment that values contributions from all team members.
P-ZGN9fTdY	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 03 - Principles of Computer Science	According to Chapter 3 of Culturally Responsive Computing, how do open-source language communities promote global collaboration?	According to Chapter 3 of Culturally Responsive Computing, open-source language communities promote global collaboration by connecting developers from diverse cultural backgrounds, facilitating cross-cultural learning, and enabling innovation through shared knowledge and collective problem-solving.
fv%!6<ue25	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 03 - Principles of Computer Science	According to Chapter 3 of Culturally Responsive Computing, what challenges do open-source projects face in promoting cultural diversity?	According to Chapter 3 of Culturally Responsive Computing, open-source projects face challenges in promoting cultural diversity because the dominance of English and the potential for cultural misunderstandings can create barriers to participation. To address these, communities must emphasise inclusivity and establish clear guidelines to support contributors from diverse backgrounds.
Kd!~bH.pQ,	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 03 - Principles of Computer Science	According to Chapter 3 of Culturally Responsive Computing, what role do localization projects play in open-source communities?	According to Chapter 3 of Culturally Responsive Computing, localization projects in open-source communities broaden participation by translating software and documentation, which lowers entry barriers for non-English speakers and enables more inclusive collaboration across cultures.
"p|42p#T|aQ"	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 03 - Principles of Computer Science	According to Chapter 3 of Culturally Responsive Computing, how does GitHub bridge cultural gaps in programming?	According to Chapter 3 of Culturally Responsive Computing, GitHub bridges cultural gaps in programming by providing a global collaboration platform equipped with inclusive tools, community guidelines, and visibility features that democratise participation and make it easier for developers from diverse cultural backgrounds to contribute.
CUI=:]?r,Z	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 03 - Principles of Computer Science	According to Chapter 3 of Culturally Responsive Computing, what emerging trends are shaping programming language design across cultures?	According to Chapter 3 of Culturally Responsive Computing, emerging trends shaping programming language design include the development of multilingual IDEs and documentation, localisation of tools and resources, creation of domain-specific languages for particular regions, and greater emphasis on inclusivity and accessibility in language design.
mgMEHl}Wvx	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 03 - Principles of Computer Science	According to Chapter 3 of Culturally Responsive Computing, how do globalization and localization affect programming language evolution?	According to Chapter 3 of Culturally Responsive Computing, globalization and localization affect programming language evolution by driving adaptations for international contexts, expanding the availability of non-English resources, and encouraging culturally intuitive language variants.
sbpYBGL$V+	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 03 - Principles of Computer Science	According to Chapter 3 of Culturally Responsive Computing, why is cultural awareness important for the next generation of programmers?	According to Chapter 3 of Culturally Responsive Computing, cultural awareness is important for the next generation of programmers because it ensures software is inclusive and effective for diverse users, helps avoid cultural bias in design, and broadens participation by making computing more accessible across cultures.
FucxX}!TIw	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 03 - Principles of Computer Science	According to Chapter 3 of Culturally Responsive Computing, what is the impact of non-English programming environments in education?	According to Chapter 3 of Culturally Responsive Computing, non-English programming environments in education democratise access to computing, engage learners by allowing them to work in their native language, and promote cultural and linguistic diversity in computer science.
p+Y/IL*7qe	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 03 - Principles of Computer Science	According to Chapter 3 of Culturally Responsive Computing, how do global collaborative projects foster multicultural exchange?	According to Chapter 3 of Culturally Responsive Computing, global collaborative projects foster multicultural exchange by encouraging cross-cultural teamwork, promoting shared innovation, and enabling mutual learning through events and open-source participation.
gpPMMjP9mu	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 03 - Principles of Computer Science	Why are algorithms often mistakenly seen as impartial?	Algorithms are often mistakenly seen as impartial because they are mathematical step-by-step procedures, giving the impression of neutrality. In reality, algorithms reflect the cultural biases of their creators and their training data.
"j#wcq);=]^"	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 03 - Principles of Computer Science	What are algorithms at their core?	At their core, algorithms are step-by-step procedures for calculations, data processing, and reasoning that serve as the building blocks of computer programs.
MMQ;5uo<Rt	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 03 - Principles of Computer Science	What role does data quality and representation play in algorithm design?	Data quality and representation critically shape algorithm behaviour. Poorly diverse or biased datasets lead to unfair or discriminatory outcomes in practice.
m=6pN8.TwD	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 03 - Principles of Computer Science	According to Chapter 5 of Culturally Responsive Computing, why is addressing cultural bias in algorithms a moral imperative?	According to Chapter 5 of Culturally Responsive Computing, addressing cultural bias in algorithms is a moral imperative because biased algorithms reinforce existing social inequalities, erode public trust in technology, and undermine fairness in domains such as employment, finance, and law enforcement.
fXS2*ZLbz2	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 03 - Principles of Computer Science	What are the three fundamental components of an algorithm?	The three fundamental components of an algorithm are input, process, and output.
G}X>1iN&2O	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 03 - Principles of Computer Science	What is pseudocode used for?	Pseudocode is used to outline algorithm logic without programming syntax, making it easier to conceptualise before writing formal code.
ta|H><NQb%	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 03 - Principles of Computer Science	Define sequential algorithms.	Sequential algorithms are algorithms where instructions execute in a fixed order from start to finish, producing predictable results.
liaiP9uK)X	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 03 - Principles of Computer Science	Define branching algorithms.	Branching algorithms are algorithms that include decision points such as if-else statements, which enable multiple possible execution paths depending on evaluated conditions.
fZX;5.9,$$	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 03 - Principles of Computer Science	Define looping algorithms.	Looping algorithms are algorithms that repeatedly execute a set of instructions until a specified condition is met. Examples include for loops and while loops, which allow tasks to be performed multiple times without rewriting instructions.
c,6Je*oyyt	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 03 - Principles of Computer Science	Define recursion in algorithms.	A process where an algorithm solves a problem by calling itself on smaller instances until reaching a base case.
dLQnqabMIC	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 03 - Principles of Computer Science	What does Big-O notation measure?	Big-O notation measures how the time or space complexity of an algorithm grows as the input size increases.
GUD_jgZxJt	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 03 - Principles of Computer Science	What role do algorithms play in AI?	Algorithms in artificial intelligence process data, learn patterns, and make predictions or decisions that mimic human intelligence.
CK<TWv/L=.	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 03 - Principles of Computer Science	What is supervised learning?	Supervised learning trains models on labeled examples to predict targets (e.g., classifying emails as spam or not spam using past labeled emails).
e^4,feI<ow	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 03 - Principles of Computer Science	What is unsupervised learning?	Unsupervised learning discovers structure in unlabeled data, such as clustering customers into segments based on behavior without predefined categories.
p[ZT2:P3zg	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 03 - Principles of Computer Science	What is reinforcement learning?	Reinforcement learning teaches an agent to act through trial and error by maximizing cumulative reward, as seen in systems that learn to play complex games.
E6~wt{kez,	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 03 - Principles of Computer Science	Where does the term “algorithm” originate?	The term “algorithm” originates from Al-Khwarizmi, a 9th-century Persian mathematician whose work on algebra influenced the development of step-by-step computational methods.
IbM<g(}|k|	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 03 - Principles of Computer Science	How did the Renaissance influence algorithm development?	The Renaissance influenced algorithm development through mathematical advances such as Fibonacci sequences and algorithmic approaches used in art and architecture.
A5B(}~dG1{	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 03 - Principles of Computer Science	How do modern algorithms reflect cultural contexts?	Modern algorithms reflect cultural contexts through localisation for regional languages, norms, and behaviours. For example, e-commerce or social media algorithms are tailored to fit cultural consumption patterns and preferences.
OFo]m.](+I	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 03 - Principles of Computer Science	What is data underrepresentation bias?	Data underrepresentation bias occurs when datasets fail to capture diverse populations, leading to reduced algorithm accuracy for marginalised or minority groups.
jr4}D1m~6^	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 03 - Principles of Computer Science	What role does historical data play in algorithmic bias?	Historical data can replicate past discriminatory practices, such as biased lending or predictive policing, embedding systemic inequalities into algorithmic outcomes.
ICkR;YHfu{	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 03 - Principles of Computer Science	What are three major consequences of biased algorithms from Chapter 5 of Culturally Responsive Computing?	According to Chapter 5 of Culturally Responsive Computing, three major consequences of biased algorithms are: reinforcement of stereotypes, echo chamber effects, and unfair decision-making in hiring, finance, or law enforcement.
zcD^<-/8Se	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 03 - Principles of Computer Science	What is the echo chamber effect?	The echo chamber effect occurs when algorithms reinforce existing beliefs by filtering content to match prior behaviour, limiting exposure to diverse perspectives.
C3H8n5<]o?	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 03 - Principles of Computer Science	What is an algorithmic audit?	An algorithmic audit is a systematic review of an algorithm’s design, datasets, and outputs to detect biases or ethical concerns.
t[Kln$qt9F	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 03 - Principles of Computer Science	How does user feedback help mitigate algorithmic bias?	User feedback helps mitigate algorithmic bias by providing insights into real-world performance and fairness across diverse groups of users.
ts6okQ{kEk	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 03 - Principles of Computer Science	Why is team diversity critical in algorithm development, according to Chapter 5 of Culturally Responsive Computing?	According to Chapter 5 of Culturally Responsive Computing, team diversity is critical in algorithm development because diverse perspectives help identify and mitigate hidden cultural or social biases.
A^u9{l*]1P	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 03 - Principles of Computer Science	What role do ethical guidelines play in algorithm design?	Ethical guidelines in algorithm design promote fairness, transparency, and accountability, ensuring that systems avoid bias in sensitive domains.
kXZh&vp)FN	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 03 - Principles of Computer Science	How can inclusive datasets reduce bias?	Inclusive datasets reduce bias by ensuring representation from multiple groups, correcting historical inequities, and reflecting current demographics.
MM]tRy6fA$	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 03 - Principles of Computer Science	What is the role of transparency in algorithmic processes?	Transparency in algorithmic processes builds user trust, allows oversight, and makes it easier to detect and correct bias in decision-making.
GoB!dZXg96	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 03 - Principles of Computer Science	What is the digital divide, and how is it addressed according to Chapter 1 in *Computing and Global Cultures*?	The digital divide is the gap between individuals and communities who have access to modern digital technologies and those who do not. According to Chapter 1 in *Computing and Global Cultures*, it is addressed through affordable computing devices and improved internet infrastructure in underserved and remote areas.
B+a@)R{3/n	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 03 - Principles of Computer Science	Define recursion in algorithms	Recursion in algorithms is the process where an algorithm solves a problem by calling itself on smaller instances of the same problem until it reaches a base case.
