#separator:tab
#html:false
#guid column:1
#notetype column:2
#deck column:3
Hjh9waxe)G	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What does the term “risk society” imply?	A risk society is one where institutions and individuals are increasingly preoccupied with future threats and consciously try to anticipate and control them; this shift stems from human-made risks born of complex, interconnected systems and an explosion of information that heightens awareness and caution.
AU]auqc%o;	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How does the “helicopter parent” analogy relate to managing a company?	The helicopter parent analogy warns that overcontrolling risk responses can stifle autonomy and judgment; in companies, overly rigid controls can slow opportunity capture and dampen entrepreneurial thinking even as they reduce some hazards.
wbUUldSRjh	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What triggered the rise of corporate risk governance in the 1990s?	Corporate failures attributed to governance lapses led to influential guidance like the Cadbury Code (1992) and COSO’s Internal Control framework (1992), which promoted structured oversight, internal audit, and compliance functions to shore up checks and balances.
K!tx4t]A}u	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What is “internal control” and its objective categories?	According to Chapter 1 of Empowered Enterprise Risk Management, internal control is a process effected by the board, management, and personnel to provide reasonable assurance of achieving objectives in three categories: operational effectiveness and efficiency, financial reporting reliability, and compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
q5Nz.rfS{p	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	Why is internal control described as “risk based”?	Internal control should focus effort where it matters most, so it begins with identifying and assessing risks that threaten objectives, allowing controls to be prioritized and tailored rather than uniformly applied.
KoVIo),xB4	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	Why did internal control prove insufficient, paving the way for ERM?	It was too narrow (not enterprise-wide) and too control-centric to actively support strategic decisions; staying independent from management limited its ability to shape risk-return choices and value creation.
t$2;sZaboU	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What is ERM and how does it expand the mandate?	According to Chapter 1 of Empowered Enterprise Risk Management, COSO (2004) defines ERM as a process applied in strategy setting and across the enterprise to identify potential events, manage risk within risk appetite, and provide reasonable assurance on achieving objectives—expanding from control and compliance to enterprise-wide, strategy-linked decision support.
q@mkx4gA&p	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What’s the practical difference between internal control and ERM?	Internal control primarily aims to prevent loss and ensure process integrity; ERM aims to balance downside risk with upside opportunity by integrating risk thinking into strategy selection, resource allocation, and performance management across the whole enterprise.
F_+1Z!;)cr	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What is “risk appetite,” and why is it confusing in practice?	Risk appetite is the amount and type of risk an organization is willing to pursue or retain in pursuit of objectives; in practice it confuses because it mixes subjective tolerance with value trade-offs, often devolving into vague statements instead of quantitative guardrails tied to strategic outcomes.
YM8WVKYPR	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How can risk appetite be made operational rather than rhetorical?	Translate appetite into numeric ranges and hard limits linked to value drivers (e.g., earnings-at-risk, liquidity buffers, leverage bands), embed trigger thresholds and escalation rules, and connect them to investment hurdle rates, incentives, and stop-loss criteria so decisions reflect explicit trade-offs.
oGN%O(C`])	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What does it mean for ERM to become “the risk management of everything” or “nothing”?	If ERM inherits auditing ideals and proliferates process documentation, it risks becoming the risk management of everything (process for process’s sake); if it produces superficial heat maps with no impact on choices, it becomes the risk management of nothing—neither changes decisions nor reduces surprises.
Duyj)a|B=-	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	Why is focusing ERM on strategy execution essential?	Because strategy concentrates the biggest, most correlated risks and opportunities; embedding risk analytics and scenario thinking in strategic planning, portfolio choices, and capital allocation ensures ERM affects the levers that actually move value.
"O^[G{Q,rz#"	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	Why can an obsession with KPIs/targets increase risk?	Protecting short-term targets can prompt excessive caution or reckless catch-up behavior (e.g., cutting safety corners or aggressive sales tactics), which may raise tail risks and destroy long-term value even if near-term metrics are met.
AqKOn7fkPy	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How do stakeholder vs. shareholder perspectives affect ERM?	Stakeholder framing broadens objectives beyond equity value to include employees, customers, regulators, and society; without clarity, units may optimize for near-term stakeholder KPIs while neglecting enterprise value trade-offs, so governance must reconcile perspectives into coherent priorities.
zQPzy_%P7C	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	Why do many organizations avoid quantification in ERM?	Cultural comfort with qualitative traffic lights, fear of false precision, and siloed data impede quantification; yet even coarse, consistent measures (e.g., probability × impact, cash-flow-at-risk, downside scenarios) improve comparability and aggregation.
GAmX9a$_$i	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What is a “portfolio view” of risk and why is it rare?	A portfolio view aggregates exposures across units to reveal concentration, correlation, and diversification effects; it’s rare because of inconsistent metrics, fragmented ownership, and lack of a central function with mandate and tools to synthesize top-down and bottom-up risk data.
t+gxtqc^BG	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	Can ERM stifle entrepreneurship, and how can that be avoided?	Yes—if it behaves like a helicopter parent with rigid approvals and punitive culture; to avoid this, set clear guardrails and pre-approved risk budgets that enable speed, celebrate intelligent risk-taking, and run “fast lanes” for opportunities within appetite.
mei.-GaW1C	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	Why add a theoretical lens to ERM?	Definitions don’t solve problems; theory clarifies root causes (frictions, incentives, information) and aligns ERM design to the ultimate goal—maximizing firm value—so practices target the reasons decisions go wrong rather than producing generic lists and controls.
rDxrpFmW)Z	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What does Modigliani–Miller imply and why doesn’t it hold in reality?	In a frictionless world (no taxes, no bankruptcy costs, perfect information), capital structure and risk management don’t affect value; in reality, taxes, distress costs, information asymmetries, and behavioral biases mean smart risk management can raise value by reducing costly frictions.
PQ^5nzJ;69	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How can hedging increase firm value in practice?	By reducing earnings volatility, preserving tax shields, lowering expected distress costs, protecting investment programs, and improving financing terms, hedging can convert costly uncertainty into manageable variability that supports strategy execution.
K/)kN~{D6S	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	Why treat the firm as non‑unitary for ERM design?	Because real firms have decentralized decisions, local incentives, and information gaps; ERM must bridge board, executives, and business units to align behaviors, reveal aggregate exposures, and correct optimism, bias, or gaming at the edges.
GM+Ddw;[q3	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	Which internal frictions should ERM address explicitly?	Behavioral biases (overconfidence, loss aversion), conflicts of interest (local vs. enterprise goals), and information asymmetries (hidden exposures, selective reporting) that distort decisions and obscure the true risk-return profile.
q;`0YWd[)i	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	Where does ERM sit organizationally to be effective?	At the interface of governance and management: partnering with strategy and finance to shape choices, while maintaining independent challenge and assurance through clear roles (e.g., 1st/2nd/3rd lines of defense) and escalation paths.
rWq+51X&{T	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What should boards ask to improve “risk visibility”?	What are our top correlated risk drivers? How could we plausibly lose 10–20% of enterprise value? Which scenarios breach risk appetite, and what early indicators will warn us? Which assumptions underpin our strategy, and how will we update them?
"K&A#7|*`VP"	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How does theory shape concrete ERM practices?	It points to solutions like incentive alignment, decision rights, information design, and portfolio aggregation so ERM moves from documenting risks to engineering better choices under uncertainty.
"KED|#v%YoV"	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What makes ERM hard to embed culturally?	Change fatigue, fear of transparency, perceived bureaucracy, and misaligned incentives lead to surface compliance; success requires visible sponsorship, simple tools that help people win, and proving with quick wins that ERM improves outcomes.
h9Y=UV28WH	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What messages help overcome resistance to ERM?	“ERM helps you hit your goals with fewer nasty surprises,” “We’re adding guardrails, not roadblocks,” and “If we change a decision because of new risk insight, ERM worked”—paired with rewards for intelligent risk-taking and learning.
sJ]P/ZYLM4	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	Why is Equinor a useful ERM case?	It adopted ERM early (from 1996), evolved from market-risk focus to enterprise-wide integration, engaged board and operating units, and treated risk management as a core value and “way of life,” offering lessons on scale and longevity of practice.
KN86eN!A_o	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How did Equinor’s ERM mature over time?	It broadened scope beyond financial risks, standardized methods and language, embedded risk in planning and investment reviews, and cultivated culture so every employee is expected to understand and manage risk.
g7*@!ZzQm_	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What does “empowered ERM” look like in outcomes?	Better risk conversations, clearer accountabilities, a shared methodology, faster and more confident decisions within guardrails, fewer strategic surprises, and demonstrable links between risk insights and value-creating choices.
b(T[lOza2m	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How should objectives be treated in ERM?	Use objectives to steer toward long-term value, not merely to protect short-term KPIs; test whether hitting targets actually increases value and ensure targets themselves don’t induce excessive risk-taking or unethical behavior.
L=6;PqsCZH	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How do you write a useful risk appetite statement?	Make it concise, quantitative where possible, linked to strategy and value drivers, with clear red/amber/green thresholds, decision rights, and automatic escalation—treat it as a living instrument updated as conditions and strategy evolve.
qVy(E`BO-~	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What simple formulas help communicate risk without false precision?	Risk exposure ≈ probability × impact; expected loss ≈ sum over scenarios of (probability × loss); risk-adjusted value ≈ expected NPV − downside penalty; while simple, these anchors foster consistent, comparable discussions.
O-.@K2c2>	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How can ERM enable opportunity capture rather than just stop loss?	By predefining risk budgets, specifying flexible ranges for leverage/liquidity, using staged commitments with go/no-go triggers, and pre‑clearing “fast-lane” opportunities that meet risk-return thresholds within appetite.
oCX]39fdlg	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What should a true portfolio view show management?	Total exposure by common drivers (e.g., commodity, FX, rates, regulation), correlations across businesses, diversification benefits, stress outcomes vs. appetite, and which actions (hedges, rebalancing, exits) most improve the frontier.
hwr0n7aKJ,	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What evidence proves ERM is more than a heat map?	Documented cases where risk analysis changed capital allocation, altered deal terms, delayed or accelerated projects, adjusted hedge or insurance programs, or reset incentives—plus post‑mortems that show reduced loss severity/frequency.
j-$0n!PT*v	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How can ERM balance partnering with independence?	Adopt a two‑hat model: advisory in planning and deals to co‑create better options; independent challenge at approval and assurance stages, with authority to escalate or veto when appetite or policy would be breached.
Ba:X4b@4vF	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What anti‑patterns should ERM avoid?	Assigning “risk owners” by org chart rather than by risk driver, producing unprioritized risk registers, mistaking control count for risk reduction, and equating traffic-light heat maps with action.
d>Li4v~s%f	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How can firms estimate “total risk” without black‑box models?	Use scenario libraries that span base, adverse, and severe but plausible states; quantify ranges for cash flow, capital, and covenant impacts; aggregate with simple correlation assumptions; and iterate with expert challenge and back‑testing.
"j-st(yx#MD"	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	When should ERM say “no”?	When proposals push the firm beyond risk appetite, violate hard constraints (liquidity, leverage, safety), stack correlated bets the portfolio can’t absorb, or lack credible mitigations and contingency plans.
m`3B1h52a?	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How should boards be engaged on risk?	Through forward‑looking dashboards tied to strategic objectives, with severe‑but‑plausible scenarios, early warning indicators, and clear “if‑this‑then‑that” playbooks—so oversight drives preparedness, not paperwork.
n;XJ;nWtQ%	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How do you keep ERM nimble instead of bureaucratic?	Work in short cycles (sprints), refresh scenarios and assumptions quarterly, run after‑action reviews on surprises, and prune processes and metrics that don’t change decisions.
bA>n0N_:7R	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How can ERM link to performance and incentives sensibly?	Tie a portion of pay to risk‑adjusted outcomes and adherence to guardrails, reward transparent escalation and learning from near‑misses, and penalize hidden risk‑taking that jeopardizes appetite or safety.
H/DFcQKG$x	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What early wins build ERM credibility?	Pick a visible, cross‑cutting risk; quantify exposures and mitigations; influence one major decision (e.g., timing or sizing of an investment); and show how the change reduced downside or improved risk‑adjusted return.
DSO(D;BY(N	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How does Chapter 1 reposition ERM’s purpose?	According to Chapter 1 of Empowered Enterprise Risk Management, ERM should evolve from a control-heavy heritage toward an enterprise capability that improves decisions under uncertainty through theory‑informed design and culture‑anchored practice.
HUI7W;UG:q	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What cultural signals show ERM is truly a “way of life”?	Leaders ask “what would change our mind?” in reviews; teams bring scenarios and options unprompted; people escalate early without fear; risk data flows horizontally; and success stories highlight smart risks taken, not only risks avoided.
b2IW/XT;C7	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How do you ensure ERM scales across diverse business units?	Standardize language and core metrics, align local risk limits to enterprise appetite, centralize aggregation and independent challenge, and allow local tactics to differ so long as they roll up coherently.
L:oxnGXqeo	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What is the ultimate test of ERM effectiveness?	That the firm makes better, faster, and more resilient strategic and operating decisions—with fewer costly surprises and clearer trade‑offs—resulting in higher long‑term value than it would have achieved without ERM.
DQv`t$|goM	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What is the subjective nature of risk?	Risk is subjective because it depends on individual perspectives and goals; what one person or department considers harmful may not be seen as risky by another, creating conflicting preferences across corporate, business unit, project, and individual levels.
cDeFiM$0nk	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	Why is a shared definition of risk important in organizations?	A shared definition enables consistent measurement, prioritization, and management of risks across departments, ensuring alignment toward enterprise-wide objectives instead of fragmented perceptions.
tEk+~@]NS/	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How should risk management ultimately be evaluated?	Risk management should be evaluated based on its ability to increase a firm's long-term value by improving expected cash flow rather than merely reducing volatility or avoiding losses.
xm4F8}K.]D	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What is expected cash flow and why is it central to value-based risk management?	Expected cash flow is the probability-weighted forecast of future cash flows; it reflects both potential outcomes and their likelihoods, serving as the bridge between managing uncertainty and maximizing firm value.
e$-S19bccj	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How does risk reduce firm value?	Risk reduces firm value because the expected cash flow (probability-weighted outcome) is lower than the forecasted value, and investors demand a risk premium, raising the discount rate applied to future returns.
C3rAhPr*/O	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	"What does the statement ""risk costs money"" mean?"	It means that risky cash flows are valued less than certain ones since investors require compensation for uncertainty, leading to a lower expected value and a higher discount rate when risk is present.
N=iJ&%n>sh	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What is the discount rate and how does it relate to risk?	The discount rate converts future cash flows into present value and includes both a time value component (real interest and inflation) and a risk premium, which compensates investors for exposure to non-diversifiable market risk.
hC=r{+AgA`	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	Why should firms not focus on managing their beta or risk premium?	Reducing beta mechanically lowers expected return and offers no intrinsic value creation; firms should instead manage operational and strategic risks that directly affect expected cash flow.
q1o4q,!^+>	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How can risk management influence the cost of capital indirectly?	Credible risk management can improve a firm's perceived stability and creditworthiness, leading to lower interest rates, better access to financing, and improved investor confidence.
pQ-G~>/]/I	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What is the formula for calculating the cost of risk?	Cost of risk = Probability × Impact, where impact represents the monetary deviation from forecasted value if a negative event occurs.
eD5Tq+lB0|	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	Why must both probability and impact be considered when assessing risk?	Considering only one dimension leads to misjudgment; large but highly improbable events or minor but frequent losses each require proportionate responses based on combined probability and impact.
C.$+7Fno7o	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What is the principle of proportionality in risk management?	Risk mitigation spending should be proportional to the cost of risk—neither overspending on negligible threats nor underinvesting in material ones.
PtEOk(wKmV	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What is a risk factor in corporate risk management?	A risk factor is any uncertain variable that affects performance, such as credit risk, commodity price changes, or reputational damage; these are often also value drivers that influence cash flow and firm value.
uT2h`=.X.Z	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How are value drivers related to risk factors?	Value drivers like reputation, productivity, or innovation also serve as risk factors because their deterioration leads to losses, while their improvement enhances value.
hQcv1I&R2W	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What is the difference between downside risk and upside potential?	Downside risk represents the probability and impact of adverse outcomes, while upside potential measures the probability and magnitude of favorable outcomes; both affect expected cash flow symmetrically in value-based frameworks.
"w5]A~Wf#2X"	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	Why is balancing downside risk and upside potential important?	Balancing both enables rational decision-making where opportunities are pursued within acceptable risk levels, avoiding overly conservative or reckless strategies.
"M#Q><UVVxd"	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What is satisficing and how does it distort risk perception?	Satisficing is settling for adequate performance rather than optimal outcomes, often driven by meeting short-term targets instead of maximizing long-term value, leading to underestimation of upside potential and overemphasis on avoiding failure.
H!D$pK.*lI	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How does a value-centric risk framework counteract bias?	It replaces instinctive, emotional, or incentive-driven decisions with structured evaluation of probability, impact, and proportional cost, leading to more consistent and rational risk-taking.
pY<z)dRwq;	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What is subjective probability and why is it important?	Subjective probability represents an informed estimate of likelihood when objective data are unavailable; it’s essential because most corporate risks occur under uncertainty where exact odds cannot be known.
"#[fNtD86("	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How did Frank Knight distinguish risk from uncertainty?	According to Knight, risk refers to measurable probabilities, whereas uncertainty involves situations where probabilities cannot be calculated precisely.
qs-]4?hge_	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What does Nassim Taleb’s “Black Swan” concept imply for risk management?	It suggests that rare, high-impact, unpredictable events dominate outcomes, meaning firms must design strategies that are robust or even gain from shocks rather than rely on historical probability distributions.
q!~cQ9}-[6	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	Why are subjective probabilities still useful despite uncertainty?	They guide proportional resource allocation for mitigation by reflecting expert judgment about relative likelihoods and impacts, even when exact numbers are unavailable.
Q;*i~v($e2	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What are “unknown unknowns” and how can firms prepare for them?	Unknown unknowns are unforeseeable events beyond current imagination or models; preparation involves building flexibility, maintaining buffers, and designing adaptive, resilient systems.
fTL{=,}q92	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What qualitative benefits does risk management provide even without quantification?	It enhances awareness, clarifies roles, fosters accountability, and improves communication—benefits that often precede and enable later quantitative analysis.
vY,VX]LHv(	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	Why is quantification still necessary eventually?	Quantification enables pricing, allocating, financing, and hedging risk objectively, allowing integration of risk information into capital allocation and decision processes.
Kcm[U;+nc-	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What is the shareholder value perspective on risk management?	It views risk management as a means to maximize long-term firm value for shareholders by optimizing risk-taking, not minimizing all risks, while acting as a responsible corporate citizen.
DK6HA=ZUyd	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How does shareholder value differ from short-term share price focus?	Shareholder value focuses on sustainable cash flow generation and long-term risk-adjusted returns, while short-term price chasing often relies on unsustainable tactics that destroy long-run value.
jk:[wL;Jz`	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How can focusing solely on near-term performance increase risk?	Short-termism can encourage unethical or reckless behavior—like cutting R&D, inflating earnings, or ignoring compliance—that undermines long-term firm stability and reputation.
esT~z$[<bM	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	Why are shareholder value and stakeholder value not necessarily in conflict?	Acting responsibly toward stakeholders (e.g., employees, customers, society) enhances trust, reduces reputational and regulatory risks, and thereby supports sustainable shareholder value creation.
fmfIP8.f*M	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What is meant by “being good is good for business”?	Ethical conduct and social responsibility reduce risk exposure, attract customers and investors, and create long-term economic benefits, showing that corporate virtue and profitability can align.
dYVP?p%f`A	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What is the distinction between risk and risk-taking?	Risk denotes exposure to potential harm, while risk-taking is the deliberate pursuit of opportunities that involve uncertainty; firms must engage in calculated risk-taking to grow and innovate.
"Lt!pa{+#:G"	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	Why is risk-taking essential to progress and value creation?	Without risk-taking, firms stagnate; innovation, investment, and expansion all require accepting uncertainty in pursuit of returns, embodying the principle of value through well-managed exposure.
ESJ`OmoE)5	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What is comparative advantage in risk-taking?	It means focusing on risks the firm is uniquely equipped to bear due to its expertise, resources, or technology, thereby maximizing expected value relative to competitors.
kKj_:ZW+:~	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How does an oil drilling company illustrate comparative advantage in risk-taking?	Drilling firms accept exploration risks that others avoid because their expertise, technology, and scale allow them to manage these risks profitably, transforming uncertainty into opportunity.
f6nFD-*mh}	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What does it mean to manage risk-bearing versus risk-taking?	Risk-bearing addresses existing exposures to prevent harm, while risk-taking concerns creating new exposures through strategic decisions—both require balance between protection and growth.
et7SQV&A;]	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	Why should firms not seek risk minimization as their goal?	Eliminating risk entirely would paralyze opportunity and value creation; the aim should be well-informed, proportional risk-taking that maximizes long-term benefit.
G[:r|YRK*{	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How does risk management support productive risk-taking?	It ensures firms are exposed only to risks they understand and choose, providing transparency, contingency planning, and proportionate controls that safeguard the pursuit of value.
p2AMU9Y(-R	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What is the relationship between probability, impact, and the cost of risk?	Cost of risk equals probability × impact; reducing either probability (through prevention) or impact (through mitigation) proportionally reduces the overall cost and increases expected cash flow.
jib=V3}Yx@	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	Why is it irrational to eliminate every conceivable risk?	Resources are finite, and allocating all of them to eliminate improbable threats yields diminishing returns and opportunity costs greater than the risk itself.
w5Az.4?z;!	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How can firms remain robust against unpredictable risks?	By maintaining liquidity buffers, diversifying operations, decentralizing decision-making, and fostering adaptability to shift quickly when shocks occur.
n}<4P_0;p}	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What role do conversations play in effective risk management?	They promote awareness, challenge assumptions, reveal hidden dependencies, and build shared understanding, which is the foundation of a risk-aware culture.
xwVWo;kc0g	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	Why should analytics complement, not replace, behavioral awareness?	Numbers alone don’t change behavior; cultural engagement and accountability make analytics meaningful by ensuring insights lead to action.
dkWz0!-5-m	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How can firms balance social responsibility with profitability?	By embedding ethical standards in strategy, aligning incentives with sustainable outcomes, and recognizing that long-term financial performance depends on trust and reputation.
I(cb`~wiUU	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What key principle should guide all risk management decisions?	The principle of proportionality—spend no more on risk mitigation than the expected cost of risk reduction warrants, ensuring rational allocation of resources.
w=swUauo$P	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What distinguishes empowered risk management from traditional control-based models?	Empowered risk management integrates value creation, informed risk-taking, and accountability into strategy and culture rather than treating risk as a compliance afterthought.
e|;sdYjKIi	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What distinguishes enterprise risk management (ERM) from traditional risk management?	ERM is distinguished by three defining features: it is integrated (coordinated across risks and units), board‑supervised (governed at the top), and enterprise‑wide in scope (covering all business units and corporate functions). According to Chapter 3 of Empowered Enterprise Risk Management, these attributes contrast with silo‑based approaches where units act independently and often suboptimally for the firm as a whole.
hDk9UQ-&zd	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	Why does a company with silos need ERM at all?	Silos are useful for specialization, accountability, and focus, but they fragment risk decisions. ERM addresses the two predictable consequences of fragmentation: duplicated/contradictory risk actions and missing big‑picture visibility. According to Chapter 3 of Empowered Enterprise Risk Management, ERM is a mechanism to overcome information and agency problems that arise from decentralized decision‑making.
gAVh-U->,x	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What is meant by an “information problem” in corporate risk management?	The information problem is the difficulty of aggregating timely, accurate, decision‑ready data on risk exposures at the corporate level. Without shared definitions, reporting, and tooling, HQ and the board cannot see net exposures, concentrations, or correlations. Chapter 3 explains that limited upward flow of risk data and weak data aggregation capabilities were material contributors in past crises, motivating ERM’s centralized view.
,Y|AiH|0e	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What is meant by an “agency problem” in corporate risk management?	The agency problem occurs when local incentives (e.g., KPIs, budget targets, prestige) drive risk choices that do not maximize firm value. Units may over‑ or under‑manage risk to hit short‑term goals even when the firm would benefit from a different trade‑off. Chapter 3 frames ERM as a response to this misalignment by making risk policy a board‑supervised, firm‑value‑oriented process.
rR3IZ$3:99	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How can uncoordinated hedging raise total risk instead of lowering it?	If Unit A sells in EUR and hedges EUR exposure while Unit B buys inputs in EUR and stays unhedged, the firm eliminates a natural hedge that would have offset exposures. The result can be higher net volatility and extra hedging cost. Chapter 3 uses this canonical FX example to show why integration (netting exposures first) precedes any derivative use.
A7IXh}k8*o	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What are “natural hedges,” and why are they central in ERM?	Natural hedges are offsetting operating exposures (e.g., revenues and costs in the same currency or volume‑linked inflows and outflows) that reduce risk without financial instruments. Integrated ERM inventories and nets these first because they are costless and often superior to financial hedges. According to Chapter 3, ignoring natural hedges is a hallmark of silo behavior.
A{J?<o$2Oa	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	Why does ERM emphasize correlations across risk factors?	Risk factors (e.g., commodity prices, FX rates, interest rates) often co‑move. Managing each in isolation can over‑ or under‑hedge the firm’s true net risk. ERM applies portfolio logic—optimize at the enterprise level using correlations—to set policy on the combined, not standalone, risk. Chapter 3 highlights that correlated risks can either amplify or dampen total exposure.
A)0WXaK`/t	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What is “integrated risk management” in one sentence?	It is the practice of (1) identifying and netting operating exposures across units, (2) incorporating correlations among risk factors, and (3) optimizing at the corporate (portfolio) level rather than at sub‑unit levels—so the firm manages the right net risk with proportionate actions.
Q@BNO5UV?z	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How do separate P&Ls encourage silo behavior that hurts risk decisions?	Separate P&Ls create “tribes” with localized goals and incentives. Managers optimize to their scorecard (e.g., margin targets), not to firm value. This fosters duplicated hedges, withheld information, and target‑driven risk actions misaligned with enterprise interests. Chapter 3 discusses how firms like Apple counter this by focusing on a single P&L and cross‑team practices.
i~hq[Y79kU	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What does “board‑supervised” change in practice?	It elevates risk from a back‑office compliance exercise to a strategic, overseen process. The board (and its risk committee) sets risk appetite guidance, demands enterprise‑level visibility, arbitrates cross‑silo trade‑offs, and ensures proportionality to firm value. Chapter 3 identifies top‑level supervision as a defining ERM feature that counters both information and agency problems.
kJq4$t_!1b	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	Why can silo reporting starve the board of decision‑quality risk insight?	Units may hoard data (to preserve autonomy, avoid scrutiny, or because systems are weak), report selectively, or use inconsistent metrics. The result is a fragmented mosaic that obscures concentrations and net exposures. According to Chapter 3, ERM standardizes taxonomies, mandates reporting cadence/quality, and builds aggregation capability so oversight is informed rather than blind.
fTgC8-eA$Q	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How do KPIs distort risk choices?	KPIs convert complex value goals into simpler, local targets. Managers then treat “goal achievement risk” (missing the KPI) as the dominant risk, sometimes spending too much to cross an arbitrary line or too little if spending would jeopardize the scorecard. Chapter 3 explains that ERM re‑anchors decisions to firm value and proportionality instead of “target at all costs.”
fm*v9/P.{V	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What does “proportionality” mean for ERM decisions?	Proportionality means spending on risk actions in line with the cost of risk (probability × impact) at the enterprise level. Overspending wastes value; underspending leaves avoidable loss. ERM’s portfolio view and governance aim to restore this balance across units and risk types, as discussed in Chapter 3.
dAZpjD0AZ1	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What is over‑management of risk, and when does it happen?	Over‑management is doing more risk mitigation than is economically justified. It often occurs when a unit has already hit targets and wants to “protect” them, or after a salient incident that triggers reactive spending. Chapter 3 notes that highly visible market risks (FX/commodities) are common over‑managed candidates because managers feel margin pressure locally.
M>d=3o6:hj	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What is under‑management of risk, and when does it happen?	Under‑management is failing to mitigate risk even when it would create value. It occurs when proactive costs (tools, staff, controls) would hurt near‑term KPIs, or when biases (over‑optimism, overconfidence, simplification) dull attention to low‑probability/high‑impact risks. Chapter 3 links this to incentive structures and human biases.
L]g3mEv!{9	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How do behavioral biases feed under‑management?	Three common biases are: over‑simplification (preferring tidy narratives over messy analysis), over‑optimism (“nothing bad will happen here”), and overconfidence (overrating control and skill). Together they downplay tail risks and delay prudent mitigation. Chapter 3 emphasizes that ERM process discipline helps counteract these biases.
Cy!DPKqEgm	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	Is ERM anti‑silo?	No—ERM is not anti‑specialization. It preserves the benefits of silos while countering their predictable risk side‑effects. ERM creates cross‑silo standards, data, and forums so specialized units still optimize, but within an enterprise playbook that maximizes firm value.
DB0EB`ZA_P	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What does a practical ERM correction of silo FX hedging look like?	Step 1: Inventory unit‑level currency inflows/outflows by currency and tenor. Step 2: Net exposures across the enterprise to reveal natural hedges. Step 3: Consider cross‑risk correlations (e.g., oil‑USD link). Step 4: Hedge residual net risk to policy tolerance. Step 5: Monitor drift and rebalance. This sequence embodies the Chapter 3 portfolio logic.
Oj=+eYUdCj	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	Why must ERM be a process, not a project?	Risks, exposures, and correlations evolve. A one‑off “risk map” goes stale quickly. ERM establishes recurring identification, measurement, aggregation, decision, and review cycles under board oversight so proportionality is maintained over time. Chapter 3 frames ERM explicitly as an ongoing, supervised process.
K_z}vUY<FO	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How does ERM change the role of the executive team?	Executives become integrators: they adjudicate cross‑unit trade‑offs, own enterprise‑level risk optimization, and ensure the board sees accurate net exposure. They set common taxonomies and thresholds, and align incentives so units internalize firm‑value trade‑offs rather than just local KPIs.
k*0._s^]yF	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What are the minimum data capabilities ERM needs to solve the information problem?	A consistent risk taxonomy, standardized unit reporting templates, data lineage/quality controls, aggregation engines (to net and consolidate), correlation analytics, and timeliness SLAs. Chapter 3 highlights that weak aggregation capability is a root cause of poor enterprise risk decisions.
"bDw(3IW9B#"	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How can ERM reduce cost while improving protection?	By (1) eliminating redundant hedges and tools across silos, (2) substituting free/cheap natural hedges for paid financial hedges, and (3) focusing spend on the largest enterprise residuals rather than evenly across units. Chapter 3 notes that integration often yields immediate savings without reducing resilience.
"Kas#&F)R)E"	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	Why is a single enterprise risk language so important?	Without shared definitions of risk factors, measures, and thresholds, aggregation produces apples‑and‑oranges results. A common language makes unit reports additive, auditable, and actionable at the board and HQ levels. Chapter 3 positions unified language as a prerequisite for integrated management.
b[t!ws|TR&	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How does ERM address target‑driven distortions without killing performance management?	ERM does not abolish KPIs; it reframes them. Targets must align with firm value, and risk actions are vetted against enterprise proportionality. Governance (risk committees, challenge sessions) checks “hit the number” tactics that destroy long‑term value. Chapter 3 advocates portfolio‑first decisions with KPIs subordinated to value.
E~f-|@M0Hx	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What is the portfolio objective function ERM optimizes?	Maximize firm value (expected cash flows) subject to risk appetite and constraints, where risk is evaluated on enterprise residuals after natural hedges and correlations. In plain terms: choose the cheapest mix of operating and financial actions that keeps enterprise risk within tolerance while preserving upside.
C!Uwj>:J!H	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How can ERM make boards genuinely effective on risk?	By giving directors consolidated exposure views, trend and concentration analysis, policy adherence dashboards, and scenario outcomes at the enterprise level—not unit anecdotes. With this visibility, boards can set appetites, demand corrective actions, and evaluate trade‑offs credibly, as emphasized in Chapter 3.
e<;?Hq]j:=	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	Why is a “single source of truth” for risk exposures non‑negotiable?	Multiple, conflicting exposure numbers undermine decisions and accountability. ERM establishes one governed data store for risk measures, with clear owners and reconciliation to financials/operations, so board and management can debate choices—not data provenance.
D^Ovih*<W0	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What simple test reveals whether risk management is still siloed?	Ask: (1) Are operating offsets netted before any derivative use? (2) Do we model correlations across major risk factors? (3) Do board reports show enterprise residuals and concentrations? A “no” to any of these indicates risk is not fully integrated per Chapter 3’s criteria.
"PTFLdtZ#bz"	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How does ERM balance speed with oversight in fast‑moving markets?	By pre‑approving playbooks and guardrails (limits, triggers, rebalancing rules) at the enterprise level so units can act quickly within boundaries. Escalation paths and after‑action reviews keep agility without losing proportionality or visibility.
EGq=Q`F`mD	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What organizational moves help de‑tribalize risk decisions?	Rotation programs, cross‑functional risk councils, a single enterprise P&L perspective in decision forums, shared incentives tied to enterprise outcomes, and regular cross‑silo exposure “show‑and‑tells.” Chapter 3 cites such practices as effective anti‑silo measures.
J(V;U/?g^`	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How do you know if ERM is working?	Leading indicators: fewer redundant hedges, lower net hedge cost per unit of volatility reduced, faster and cleaner enterprise exposure reports, board‑level challenges grounded in consolidated facts, and decisions that explicitly reference enterprise residuals and proportionality.
qgT{~yOQ:d	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What is a “risk culture” in an organization?	A risk culture is a state where evaluating and acting on risk is woven into everyday decisions by everyone, not just specialists. It shows up as continual risk spotting, open sharing of concerns, and proactive responses. According to Chapter 4 of Empowered Enterprise Risk Management, when risk culture works, risk awareness, communication, and action flow without friction so threats reach decision‑makers and are addressed promptly.
B}7FJj0O_o	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How does risk culture differ from simply doing risk assessments once a year?	Annual or sporadic risk mapping is episodic; risk culture is continuous. In a healthy culture, people maintain ongoing sensitivity to changing conditions, update assumptions in real time, and escalate new vulnerabilities as they appear. Chapter 4 emphasizes that pace of change makes “always on” awareness essential, not just workshops.
gg1qL=IsbK	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What are the three core ingredients of a strong risk culture?	The three ingredients are: heightened risk awareness, open lines for reporting and sharing, and proactive incorporation of risk into decisions. According to Chapter 4 of Empowered Enterprise Risk Management, these three must work together—if any link is weak, the culture falters.
i6J7Q8b85C	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	Why is “awareness” not enough on its own?	Awareness without open communication traps insights in silos, and awareness without action leads to analysis paralysis. A robust culture turns awareness into shared information and then into timely decisions, so the chain is awareness to communication to action.
hVhC/61,P-	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What does “open lines of communication” look like in practice?	People can raise concerns without fear of being labeled negative, foolish, or disloyal; managers invite dissent, respond constructively, and share lessons across units. According to Chapter 4, formal channels matter less than the climate—psychological safety is what keeps information flowing.
dX+q%ltmyu	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What is meant by “proactive decision‑making” with respect to risk?	It means acting before losses crystallize—funding mitigations, adjusting plans, or pausing activities despite near‑term cost or KPI pressure. Chapter 4 contrasts this with reactive approaches that hope for the best and shelve risk reports (AADD: Analyze, Assess, Debate, Drop).
L-&WM&0TY@	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	Which three cultural forces most commonly undermine risk culture?	Generalized optimism (a norm that discourages “bad news”), inertia (habit and bureaucratic autopilot), and short‑termism (overweighting near‑term earnings versus long‑run value). According to Chapter 4, these forces weaken awareness, block communication, and deter action.
lK/+J-DHvO	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How does generalized optimism hurt risk management?	If positivity is prized over realism, people self‑censor: risks feel like “negativity.” This suppresses weak signals and delays escalation. Chapter 4 notes that some firms implicitly punish bearers of bad news, shrinking the organization’s line of sight.
Ok&cNID)?j	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What does inertia look like in risk decisions?	Teams lock into base‑case spreadsheets, reuse assumptions, and treat uncertainty as someone else’s problem. Routine crowds out curiosity; heuristics replace scenario thinking. The result is dulled senses and missed shifts, as described in Chapter 4.
EnV6f&EI}X	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What is short‑termism in this context?	Short‑termism is favoring actions that boost near‑term metrics even when they harm long‑run value, like deferring mitigations or safety upgrades to hit quarterly targets. Chapter 4 cites research showing executives routinely sacrifice economically sensible choices to meet earnings expectations.
"h1viaU#7F<"	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	Why is short‑termism so corrosive to risk culture?	Because many mitigations are upfront costs with future benefits. If leaders fixate on this quarter, employees learn to shelve risks and avoid spending on prevention. Over time, this normalizes complacency and creates a risk‑prone culture instead of a risk‑conscious one.
f-{i!O~I[[	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How can short‑termism generate major corporate risks?	Aggressive target‑chasing can push ethical lines, silence technical dissent, and incentivize corner‑cutting—planting seeds for reputational, legal, or safety disasters. Chapter 4 connects such dynamics to real‑world crises where pressure to “make the numbers” preceded breakdowns.
"q46g(C|[(#"	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What does “tone at the top” mean for risk culture?	Tone at the top is leadership’s lived priorities: what they praise, pay for, and tolerate. If leaders demonstrate that long‑run value and good citizenship outrank quarterly optics, employees follow suit. According to Chapter 4, tone is set through decisions, not slogans.
vt6%c)*hOw	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How do executive compensation schemes influence risk culture?	Pay tied heavily to short‑term earnings and at‑the‑money options amplifies upside‑seeking and downside blindness: options gain from volatility and expire worthless if thresholds aren’t hit. This can fuel earnings management, selective disclosure, or worse. Chapter 4 links high‑powered pay to risk‑prone behavior.
Pf0TSLm|nd	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	Are options always bad for culture and risk?	No—used thoughtfully, equity can align leaders with long‑term value. The problem is when design overweights near‑term hurdles and volatility. Better designs emphasize long‑term, risk‑adjusted value creation with deferrals, clawbacks, and multi‑year metrics.
!4{:HCC.m	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How do KPIs and targets interact with risk culture?	Targets focus effort but can distort behavior if they become ends in themselves. When missing a target is framed as failure, people may over‑manage salient risks to protect metrics or under‑invest in prevention that dents margins. Chapter 4 urges balancing targets with principles that protect long‑term value.
e6)^uh`J^-	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What distinguishes a risk‑prone culture from a risk‑conscious one?	Risk‑prone cultures chase short‑term gains, suppress bad news, and cut corners. Risk‑conscious cultures surface weak signals early, debate openly, and accept near‑term costs to avert larger future losses. The former breeds surprises; the latter reduces them.
"vk2#c:!sH)"	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How can leaders practically build risk culture?	Make risk management a core value; articulate a credible ERM vision; appoint ERM champions; define expected behaviors; train and coach; and communicate consistently. According to Chapter 4 of Empowered Enterprise Risk Management, these elements together shift norms from compliance to commitment.
wT3ku;LuvZ	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What is an “ERM champion” and why does it matter?	An ERM champion is an internal leader (or small team) who understands how ERM creates value, translates it into business terms, and sustains momentum. Champions convert abstract promises (“fewer surprises”) into concrete wins, helping secure executive buy‑in.
ei!o>Ki/][	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	Why must risk management be elevated to a core value?	If ERM is treated as a checkbox, it competes with urgent tasks and loses. As a core value—“how we do business here”—it guides trade‑offs, budgets, and scheduling. Chapter 4 argues that only then do awareness, communication, and action embed across the enterprise.
wC*)6<y%%r	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	Why is defining behaviors more effective than listing values?	Values are vague and differently interpreted. Behaviors are observable and coachable. “We value integrity” is abstract; “we escalate material deviations within 24 hours and document decisions” drives action. Chapter 4 endorses behavior‑based culture building.
irHo3<!)y*	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What are examples of concrete behaviors that support risk culture?	Examples include: pre‑mortems on major decisions; explicit scenario ranges in plans; red‑team challenges for critical assumptions; blameless post‑mortems; 24‑hour escalation for threshold breaches; and sharing “near‑miss” learnings across units.
Cz3:]YDrBL	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How do training and communication contribute differently?	Training builds shared concepts and skills; communication sets expectations and reinforces norms. Training says “how”; communication says “we mean it—do this consistently,” featuring stories, metrics, and leadership modeling.
JyzgGc<fCV	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How does risk culture connect back to ERM’s “silo” problems?	A strong culture widens sightlines (solving information gaps), normalizes cross‑unit sharing (reducing duplication), and orients choices to firm value, not local KPIs (mitigating agency problems). Chapter 4 presents culture as the first line of defense for the issues flagged in Chapter 3.
FP/?de0A*^	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What is the AADD pattern and how do we avoid it?	AADD (Analyze, Assess, Debate, Drop) is the cycle where risk reports die on shelves. Avoid it by assigning owners, triggers, budgets, and deadlines to each material risk, and by tracking “time from detection to decision” as a leadership metric.
s4ovTvZH55	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How can we measure whether risk culture is strengthening?	Use leading indicators: number of escalations per quarter, median escalation time, percent of projects with pre‑mortems, near‑miss reporting volume, cross‑unit learning sessions held, and budget share for preventive actions. Trends tell the story.
mlcX@G-t8X	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How do we prevent optimism from silencing risk signals?	Leaders must proactively invite bad news (“what could sink this?”), reward early escalation, and publicly thank dissenters whose concerns averted loss. Chapter 4 stresses that climate—more than process—determines whether signals surface.
P36QGt6>^	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How can inertia be countered day‑to‑day?	Institutionalize curiosity: require alternative scenarios, rotate reviewers, embed red teams for key investments, and revisit base assumptions on a cadence. Small process nudges keep minds from reverting to autopilot.
zD=Wf.PaU=	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	Can short‑term pressures and good risk culture coexist?	Yes—if short‑term metrics are bounded by non‑negotiables (safety, compliance, integrity) and leaders accept near‑term misses to uphold those guardrails. Communicating “we will miss targets rather than hide risk” aligns behavior with values.
hN42P/BCC%	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What role does the board play in risk culture?	Boards set tone through CEO selection, compensation architecture, and oversight cadence. They should privilege long‑term, risk‑adjusted value in pay, require culture and risk reporting, and back management when principled choices hurt near‑term optics. Chapter 4 highlights board responsibility here.
jvoBR.)[Y`	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How can compensation encourage risk‑conscious behavior?	Weight pay toward long‑term value; include risk‑adjusted metrics; add deferrals and clawbacks; diversify metrics beyond EPS; and evaluate qualitative culture indicators. This tempers volatility‑seeking and rewards durable performance.
C=_HKAzd(A	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What messaging helps employees internalize risk as a core value?	Simple, repeated commitments like: “No surprises,” “Escalate early,” “Debate openly,” “Document and decide,” and “Protect long‑term value over this quarter.” Pair messages with stories where doing the right thing cost in the short run but paid off later.
P=XkjaOre8	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How do we embed learning from incidents without blame?	Run blameless post‑mortems focused on system fixes; publish brief “lessons learned”; track completion of fixes; and celebrate teams that surface near‑misses. Psychological safety accelerates discovery and improvement.
F|:9h1L&RV	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How does a risk culture support opportunity‑seeking, not just defense?	By clarifying acceptable risk and encouraging calculated bets aligned to comparative advantage. Strong culture reduces downside noise, freeing capacity to pursue upside with speed and confidence.
cd8$Hi!ie>	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	Why is consistency over time critical when building culture?	Culture changes through repeated, congruent signals: pay design, promotions, resource allocations, and leader reactions to bad news. Inconsistency—say one thing, do another—erodes credibility and stalls change. Chapter 4 underscores persistence.
hN-u!F`k^!	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What early wins can demonstrate ERM’s value to skeptics?	Examples: eliminate duplicate hedges across units; reduce incident response time; catch a control weakness before audit; or green‑light a bolder investment after structured risk debate. Tangible outcomes make the vision real.
nYgz@uF;~U	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What risks arise if we pursue culture purely via compliance checklists?	People will perform to the checklist, not the principle; issues will be surfaced to satisfy audits, not to improve decisions; and “paper ERM” will crowd out meaningful dialogue. Chapter 4 warns against mistaking forms for substance.
H(XtV:VLgE	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How should managers handle risk reports that threaten short‑term KPIs?	Acknowledge the impact, restate the primacy of long‑term value and citizenship, and proceed with mitigations. Communicate the rationale widely so others see that principles hold under pressure.
y]T`:nVRte	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What simple cadence keeps the awareness to communication to action loop healthy?	Monthly risk huddles in each unit; quarterly cross‑unit learning forums; pre‑mortems on major decisions; and a standing executive review of top risks with clear owners and next actions. Regularity prevents drift.
EAP9!3l*=}	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	When do we know risk culture has “taken”? 	When early escalation is routine, dissent is welcomed, near‑misses are shared, mitigations are funded without drama, and teams balance pursuit of upside with thoughtful protection of the downside—even when it dings short‑term numbers. According to Chapter 4, that is when risk management has become “a way of life.”
wb~3u<<|K-	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What is the central aim of risk governance?	Risk governance aims to clarify roles, responsibilities, and decision rights so risks are identified, owned, escalated, and addressed in a way that supports long‑term value creation rather than short‑term optics.
"J6q#UN;9+z"	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How does risk governance differ from risk culture?	Risk culture shapes beliefs and day‑to‑day behaviors; risk governance formalizes who does what, when, and how. Culture is “how we act by default,” while governance is “the defined process that ensures action happens.”
g%aB07BoRr	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	Why is clarifying responsibility so emphasized in governance?	Because shared responsibility often becomes no responsibility. Assigning clear owners prevents risks from falling through the cracks and creates accountability for decisions and outcomes.
D04`8Y^&Le	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	Who ultimately “owns” the firm’s risk profile?	According to Chapter 5 of Empowered Enterprise Risk Management, the board of directors are the ultimate owners of the firm’s risk profile through oversight of strategy, risk‑taking, and the processes that manage risks.
x9CO7<hjH=	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What does risk oversight by the board actually mean in practice?	Board oversight means ensuring a robust risk process exists, monitoring the firm’s major risks and responses, and regularly challenging management’s assumptions, choices, and follow‑through.
x(ljG3_?5J	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How should a board challenge strong reported profits?	Boards should ask which risks were taken to achieve the results, how repeatable they are, how bad adverse scenarios could get, and whether any outsized gains are due to leveraged or speculative financial positions that raise loss potential later.
t;);n:tp:6	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	When should financial gains trigger heightened scrutiny?	If gains from financial instruments are unusually large—e.g., several times operating profit—directors should demand explanations, approvals, and limits before luck turns into large losses.
jz]mBMA=}p	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	Why do boards need risk education?	Boards rarely consist of risk specialists and face information disadvantages. Basic literacy and timely, decision‑ready information are prerequisites for meaningful challenge and sound oversight.
F-Uj_nL8XA	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What conversational stance should the board adopt with management on risk?	A standing agenda that asks: what major risks we face; how they are identified, analyzed, evaluated, and treated; what is changing; what actions are underway; and where help or decisions are needed.
rBC4a8T}$=	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What is “risk ownership” in simple terms?	Risk ownership assigns a specific person or unit responsibility and authority to assess, report, and decide the risk response for a defined risk.
pR,jdPFbtv	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	Why must risk owners have decision authority, not just reporting duties?	Without authority over responses and resources, “ownership” is hollow; owners need the power to choose mitigation, transfer, acceptance, or avoidance and to fund the chosen action.
f;p+BHD<qJ	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What are the three archetypes for distributing risk ownership?	Centralize (HQ owns and executes policy), Coordinate (units manage but follow corporate standards/thresholds), Decentralize (units own, HQ monitors process and information).
jz7fy/{j0G	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	When is centralization of risk ownership usually best?	When multiple units share similar exposures or when exposures correlate across the firm—e.g., foreign exchange, interest rate, or commodity price risks where netting and correlation effects create big efficiency gains.
m`-~^lK<m_	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	Why is decentralized ownership sometimes superior?	Local teams may have sharper, faster information about operational realities, counterparties, and processes; speed and context can outweigh coordination benefits for unit‑specific operational risks.
n*a*Pwh;/{	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What is an example where coordination (not full centralization) is ideal?	Credit risk on large customers: units know the relationship and commercial context, while HQ sees group‑wide exposure, liquidity impacts, and concentration, so policy and thresholds should be set centrally with unit execution.
dus*anSNn8	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How should HQ monitor decentralized risk ownership?	Through periodic risk reporting, dialogue, and triggers that escalate high‑magnitude exposures so corporate views on costs, benefits, reputation, and citizenship shape the final response.
Po}!3}ez[}	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What happens if risk ownership is pushed below P&L responsibility?	Owners of projects or sub‑processes may over‑manage to “cover their backs,” because they fear blame but do not internalize P&L trade‑offs; unit leaders must therefore review and constrain spend versus benefit.
D8*fh]1<zC	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How can central functions themselves become silos?	Even when ownership is centralized, functions like Treasury can optimize for their own subgoals (e.g., trading views or near‑term transaction hedges) rather than firm‑wide risk‑return, correlations, and performance variability.
kaodYX3^:J	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	Why is centralization not equal to integration?	Integration optimizes firm‑wide performance variability across correlated risks using net exposures; centralization merely moves decision rights to HQ and can still be fragmented by function‑specific agendas.
BQf}swr$Im	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What governance mechanism best supports integrated risk management?	According to Chapter 5 of Empowered Enterprise Risk Management, an ERM committee—cross‑functional, senior, and explicitly focused on firm‑wide risk‑return—reviews and endorses major risk policies before execution.
dt&oK:!qZA	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What questions should an ERM committee ask about any proposed policy?	Is cost proportionate to the risk’s expected impact? Is it consistent with long‑term value and good citizenship? Have we used correlations and natural hedges? Does it materially reduce performance variability in ways that help mission‑critical goals?
p!F6iX!/^8	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	Why might Treasury resist ERM committee influence?	Shifting “soft power” to a cross‑functional forum reduces unilateral control over FX/IR/commodity policies, replaces rubber‑stamping with challenge, and reorients from trading views to enterprise stability and value.
Q~qc8CdL,:	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	Who should lead the corporate risk function or committee?	Commonly the CFO or a CRO. The chair sets agenda, builds capabilities, sponsors models and analytics, and acts as ERM champion—especially vital in firms too small for a full committee.
h.[4;@Nukf	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What is the “Three Lines of Defence” model?	First line: business units manage risks in operations. Second line: risk management, compliance, quality, security provide guidance and challenge. Third line: internal audit independently assures process integrity and improvement.
PNyfRB=ArV	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How does internal audit support risk governance?	Internal audit provides independent, risk‑based assurance and advice, audits risk and compliance processes, promotes best practice, and maintains whistle‑blowing channels, acting as the board’s eyes and ears in daily operations.
pWlrWoEq28	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What balance must internal audit strike?	It must be independent enough to challenge and report candidly to the board while maintaining constructive relationships with management to enable practical improvements.
tU:G$8Hf/s	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How should risk, compliance, and internal audit relate?	They should be distinct but coordinated: risk helps optimize risk‑return; compliance ensures legal and regulatory adherence; internal audit assures process integrity and continuous improvement across both.
p!EqsPY{>=	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	Why does risk management independence matter?	Independence safeguards the board’s direct access to unbiased assessments, especially when executives are committed to risky deals or may be tempted to suppress bad news.
gWM9o}Q[L3	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	Can risk management be both independent and business‑embedded?	Yes. It can provide decision support to optimize risk‑return while maintaining an unfiltered reporting line to the board so independent views cannot be muted.
nP3c)MUgx?	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What governance failure does independence try to prevent?	Situations where management ignores or sanitizes risk warnings—e.g., during major M&A—leaving the board blind to spikes in risk and undermining its oversight role.
n:,<zp3~bM	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How should boards react to “red flags” in risk data?	They should demand deeper analysis, alternative scenarios, limits, and action plans; if inquiry is stonewalled, escalate to independent functions and, if necessary, adjust leadership expectations or incentives.
B}{2tL]J*q	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What incentives help align units with enterprise risk goals?	Tie a portion of variable pay to quality of risk practices (timely reporting, adherence to policy, effectiveness of actions), not only to near‑term earnings, to temper over‑ and under‑management biases.
Ak|Q.xp(gX	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How do short‑term targets distort risk decisions?	When behind target, units may skimp on needed mitigation (undermanage); when ahead, they may overspend to avoid slipping (over‑manage). Governance must counter both with proportionality checks.
bPEATI!l<v	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What is a simple proportionality test for risk spend?	Estimate risk cost ≈ probability × impact (in currency) at the corporate level; accept mitigation only if expected benefit ≥ expected cost, including indirect effects like reputation and regulatory exposure.
h$v@{|T?=)	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	Why must the proportionality test be applied centrally for big risks?	Only the corporate view can account for cross‑unit offsets, correlations, reputational spillovers, liquidity impacts, and stakeholder expectations that units may miss.
K|E_xSt`;2	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What triggers should escalate a unit‑owned risk to corporate review?	Thresholds based on potential financial impact, regulatory or safety implications, reputation risk, concentration across units, or correlation with other enterprise‑critical exposures.
Gd2TYq`[0c	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How should governance handle correlated risks?	Policies must be set with a portfolio view so hedging one risk doesn’t destroy a natural hedge with another; use joint analysis of FX, commodity, and interest‑rate sensitivities on earnings, cash, and liquidity.
cgRs!O9xMm	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What makes risk reporting decision‑useful for the board?	Concise heat maps tied to owners and actions, trend views, scenario impacts on KPIs and covenant headroom, and explicit asks (decisions needed, limits, resources) rather than raw registries.
A4u;iI%=gP	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How can boards improve their risk questioning?	Adopt a standard playbook: ask what could make the strategy fail, where concentration exists, what indicators would warn early, and how fast the firm can pivot if adverse scenarios unfold.
o||b(R/ym3	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What does good “risk ownership follows P&L” look like?	Business unit heads own operational and local strategic risks affecting their income statement and are held to proportionality and reporting standards, with corporate oversight for high‑magnitude exposures.
f&4_qCR*>-	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What governance guardrails reduce central‑function siloing?	Cross‑functional policy reviews, joint metrics (e.g., cash‑flow‑at‑risk across FX/IR/commodity), shared incentives tied to enterprise variability reduction, and ERM committee endorsement before board approval.
CpK<Y7i17T	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How should governance treat use of financial instruments by non‑financial firms?	Define purpose (hedge, not speculate), eligible instruments, hedge ratios tied to net exposures, documentation requirements, limits, and explicit board reporting of gains/losses versus policy intent.
PLoV>EU&Pv	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What is the board’s role when major profits stem from market moves?	Require attribution showing operating versus financial effects, verify adherence to policy, reassess limits, and, if necessary, curtail activities that exceed the firm’s risk appetite and mission.
xpTA^{Si,U	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How do whistle‑blowing channels fit into governance?	They provide safe, independent routes to surface control breaches, unethical conduct, or emerging risks directly to internal audit or the board, protecting reporters from retaliation.
ya~Z55sS0y	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What qualities make an effective ERM committee member?	Enterprise mindset over parochial goals, comfort with uncertainty and trade‑offs, willingness to challenge peers, and the authority to marshal resources in their area to execute agreed policies.
FA,a@|mb&,	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What artifacts should governance create to anchor practice?	A clear risk policy architecture (principles, appetite statements, roles, escalation triggers), an integrated reporting cadence, an ERM committee charter, and documented decision rationales.
Mzkik}/AUN	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How do you keep governance from becoming bureaucracy?	Focus on materiality and decisions: fewer, deeper discussions on the biggest risks; standard templates; clear thresholds; and tight loops from identification to action to verification.
fTEw$BC2?G	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	How should governance measure its own effectiveness?	Track timeliness of actions versus triggers, reduction in enterprise performance volatility, utilization of natural hedges, audit findings closure rates, and board satisfaction with clarity and foresight of risk reports.
nL7kuqBDFX	Basic	Launch into Computing::Unit 09 - Computing and Risk	What is the ultimate litmus test of risk governance quality?	When big decisions arise, the right people have clear authority, unbiased information flows to the board, proportionality is honored, natural hedges are preserved, and risk‑return trade‑offs are explicit, debated, and documented.
